Part 1: From The Feeeman's Oracle and New Hampshire Advertiser, January 11, 1788, by "A
FARMER"

Part 2: An unsigned essay from The Connecticut Journal, October 17, 1787.

. . . . Great complaint has been made, that Congress [under the Articles] has been too liberal in
their grants of salaries to individuals, and I think not without just cause. For if I am rightly
informed, there have been men whose salaries have been fifteen hundred dollars per year, and
some of them did not do business at any rate, that the sum they negotiated would amount to their
yearly salary. And some men [are] now in office, at twenty five hundred dollars per year, who I
think would have been glad to have set down at one hundred pounds a year before the war, and
would have done as much or more business. The truth is, when you carry a man's salary beyond
what decency requires, he immediately becomes a man of consequence, and does little or no
business at all. Let us cast our eyes around us, in the other departments-the judges of the superior
court have but about one hundred pounds salary a year. The judges of the courts of common
pleas, on an average, not more than sixty dollars per year. The ministers of the gospel-a very
valuable set of men, who have done honor to themselves, and rendered great service to their
country, in completing the revolution-have salaries but from sixty to an hundred pounds a year in
general. The contrast is striking. I heartily wish that all ranks of men among us, ministers of the
gospel as well as others, would turn their attention toward the Constitution they may be more
concerned in the event than they at present think of.

Rouse up, my friends, a matter of infinite importance is before you on the carpet, soon to be
decided in your convention: The New Constitution. Seize the happy moment. Secure to
yourselves and your posterity the jewel Liberty, which has cost you so much blood and treasure,
by a well regulated Bill of Rights, from the encroachments of men in power. For if Congress will
do these things in the dry tree when their power is small, what won't they do when they have all
the resources of the United States at their command? They are the servants of the public. You
have an undoubted right to set their wages, or at least to say, thus far you and those under you
may go and no further. This would in the end ease Congress of a great deal of trouble, as it
would put a stop to the impertinence of individuals in asking large salaries. I would say that the
wages of a Representative in Congress do not exceed five dollars per day; a Senator not to
exceed six; and the President seven per day, with an allowance for his table. And that the wages
of no person employed in the United States exceed the daily pay of a Representative in Congress,
but be paid according to their service, not exceeding that sum. Perhaps it may be said that money
may depreciate, or appreciate. Let a price current be taken when this Constitution is completed,
of the produce of each state, and let that be the general standard.

My friends and countrymen, let us pause for a moment and consider. We are not driven to such
great straits as to be obliged to swallow down every potion offered us by wholesale, or else die
immediately by our disease. We can form a Constitution at our leisure; and guard and secure it
on all sides. We are paying off our state debt, and the interest on the domestic, as fast as
Congress call upon us for it. As to the foreign debt, they have the promise of more interest from
us than they can get anywhere else, and we shall be able to pay them both interest and principal
shortly. But it is said they win declare war against us if we don't pay them immediately.
Common sense will teach them better. We live at too great a distance, and are too hardy and
robust a people, for them to make money out of us in that way.

But it is said, the trading towns are fond of this Constitution. Let us consider how they stand,
including their interest.

1st. The merchant wishes to have it adopted, that trade might be regulated. 2dly. Another set of
men wishes to have it adopted, that the idea of paper money might be annihilated. 3dly. Another
class of men wish to have it take place, that the public might be enabled to pay off the foreign
debt, and appear respectable abroad among the nations. So do I, with all my heart. But in neither
of these cases do I wish to see it adopted without being guarded on all sides with a Magna
Charta, or a Bill of Rights, as a bulwark to our liberties. Again, another class of men wish to
have it adopted, so that the public chest might be furnished with money to pay the interest on
their securities, which they purchased of the poor soldiers at two shillings on the pound. I wish
the soldiers were now the holders of those securites they fought so hard for. However, as the
public finances were such that they could not be paid off as they became due, and they have
carried them to market, and sold them as the boy did his top-we must pay them to the holders.
But we need not be in a hurry about it; certificates will do for that. Consider, my friends, you are
the persons who must live and die by this Constitution. A merchant or mechanic may dispose of
his goods, or pack them up in trunks and remove to another clime in the course of a few months.
But you cannot shoulder your lands, or dispose of them when you please. It therefore behooves
you to rouse up, and turn your most serious and critical attention to this Constitution. . . .
A FARMER

. . A large representation has ever been esteemed by the best whigs in Great Britain the best
barrier against bribery and corruption. And yet we find a British king, having the disposition of
all places, civil and military, and an immense revenue SQUEEZED out of the very mouths of his
wretched subjects, is able to corrupt the parliament, to vote him any supplies he demands, to
support armies, to defend the prerogatives of his crown, and carry fire and sword by his fleets
and armies; to desolate whole provinces in the eastern world, to aggrandize himself, and satisfy
the avarice of his tyrannical subjects.

No wonder our American ambassador, struck with the brilliancy of the British court [John
Adams], where everything around St. James's wears the appearance of wealth, ease and plenty,
should imagine a three branched legislature only can produce these effects, and make the
subjects happy, should write a book in favor of such a government, and send it over for the
illumination of this western world. If this is the sole fruit of his embassy, America will not
canonize him for a saint on account of his services, when they have experienced the
consequences of such a kind of government as be has planned out. In order to have formed a
right judgment, he should have looked into the ditches which serve for graves for many of the
human race-under hedges which serve as dreary habitations for the living; into the cottages of the
poor and miserable, and critically examine with how much parsimony the mechanics, the day
laborers, cottagers and villagers live in order to support their high pampered lords-before he had
wrote a book to persuade his country to pursue the same road to greatness, splendor and glory,
and have reflected in his own mind, whether he could wish to see that country which gave him
birth reduced to the same situation....

Now I submit it to the good sense of the people of these states, whether it is prudent we should
make so liberal and extensive a grant of power and property to any body of men in these United
States, before they have ever informed the public, the amount of the public debt, or what the
annual expenses of the federal government is, or will be. It is now almost five years since the
peace. Congress has employed thirteen commissioners, at 1500 dollars per annum, as I am
informed, to settle the public accounts, and we know now no more what the national debt is, than
at the first moment of their appointment. Nor do we know any more what is the amount of the
annual expenses of the federal government, than we do of the empire of China. To grant
therefore such an ample power of taxation, and the right of soil, to the amount of millions, upon
the recommendation of this honorable Convention, without either knowing the amount of the
national debt, or the annual expenses of government, would not argue, in my opinion, the highest
degree of prudence.
