BRUTUS

The first essay is taken from the ninth letter of "BRUTUS" which appeared in The New-York
Journal, January 17, 1788.

. . . . Standing armies are dangerous to the liberties of a people. . . . [If] necessary, the truth of the
position might be confirmed by the history of almost every nation in the world. A cloud of the
most illustrious patriots of every age and country, where freedom has been enjoyed, might be
adduced as witnesses in support of the sentiment. But I presume it would be useless, to enter into
a labored argument, to prove to the people of America, a position which has so long and so
generally been received by them as a kind of axiom.

Some of the advocates for this new system controvert this sentiment, as they do almost every
other that has been maintained by the best writers on free government. Others, though they will
not expressly deny, that standing armies in times of peace are dangerous, yet join with these in
maintaining, that it is proper the general government should be vested with the power to do it. I
shall now proceed to examine the arguments they adduce in support of their opinions.

A writer, in favor of this system, treats this objection as a ridiculous one. He supposes it would
be as proper to provide against the introduction of Turkish Janizaries, or against making the
Alcoran a rule of faith.'

{1 A citizen of America [Noah Webster], An Examination Into the Leading Principles of the
Federal Constitution proposed by the late Convention held at Philadelphia. With Answers to the
Principal Objections Raised Against the System (Philadelphia, 1787), reprinted in Ford (ed.),
Pamphlets pp. 29-65.}

From the positive, and dogmatic manner, in which this author delivers his opinions, and answers
objections made to his sentiments-one would conclude, that he was some pedantic pedagogue
who had been accustomed to deliver his dogmas to pupils, who always placed implicit faith in
what he delivered.

But, why is this provision so ridiculous? Because, says this author, it is unnecessary. But, why is
it unnecessary? Because, "the principles and habits, as well as the power of the Americans are
directly opposed to standing armies; and there is as little necessity to guard against them by
positive constitutions, as to prohibit the establishment of the Mahometan religion." It is admitted
then, that a standing army in time of peace is an evil. I ask then, why should this government be
authorised to do evil? If the principles and habits of the people of this country are opposed to
standing armies in time of peace, if they do not contribute to the public good, but would
endanger the public liberty and happiness, why should the government be vested with the power?
No reason can be given, why rulers should be authorised to do, what, if done, would oppose the
principles and habits of the people, and endanger the public safety; but there is every reason in
the world, that they should be prohibited from the exercise of such a power. But this author
supposes, that no danger is to be apprehended from the exercise of this power, because if armies
are kept up, it will be by the people themselves, and therefore, to provide against it would be as
absurd as for a man to "pass a law in his family, that no troops should be quartered in his family
by his consent." This reasoning supposes, that the general government is to be exercised by the
people of America themselves. But such an idea is groundless and absurd. There is surely a
distinction between the people and their rulers, even when the latter are representatives of the
former. They certainly are not identically the same, and it cannot be disputed, but it may and
often does happen, that they do not possess the same sentiments or pursue the same interests. I
think I have shown [in a previous paper] that as this government is constructed, there is little
reason to expect, that the interest of the people and their rulers will be the same.

Besides, if the habits and sentiments of the people of America are to be relied upon, as the sole
security against the encroachment of their rulers, all restrictions in constitutions are unnecessary;
nothing more is requisite, than to declare who shall be authorized to exercise the powers of
government, and about this we need not be very careful-for the habits and principles of the
people will oppose every abuse of power. This I suppose to be the sentiments of this author, as it
seems to be of many of the advocates of this new system. An opinion like this, is as directly
opposed to the principles and habits of the people of America, as it is to the sentiments of every
writer of reputation on the science of government, and repugnant to the principles of reason and
common sense.

The idea that there is no danger of the establishment of a standing army, under the new
constitution, is without foundation.

It is a well known fact, that a number of those who had an agency in producing this system, and
many of those who it is probable will have a principal share in the administration of the
government under it, if it is adopted, are avowedly in favor of standing armies. It is a language
common among them, "That no people can be kept in order, unless the government have an army
to awe them into obedience; it is necessary to support the dignity of government, to have a
military establishment. And there will not be wanting a variety of plausible reasons to justify the
raising one, drawn from the danger we are in from the Indians on our frontiers, or from the
European provinces in our neighborhood. If to this we add, that an army will afford a decent
support, and agreeable employment to the young men of many families, who are too indolent to
follow occupations that will require care and industry, and too poor to live without doing any
business, we can have little reason to doubt but that we shall have a large standing army as soon
as this government can find money to pay them, and perhaps sooner.

A writer, who is the boast of the advocates of this new constitution, has taken great pains to
show, that this power was proper and necessary to be vested in the general government.

He sets out with calling in question the candor and integrity of those who advance the objection;
and with insinuating, that it is their intention to mislead the people, by alarming their passions,
rather than to convince them by arguments addressed to their understandings.

The man who reproves another for a fault, should be careful that he himself be not guilty of it.
How far this writer has manifested a spirit of candor, and has pursued fair reasoning on this
subject, the impartial public will judge, when his arguments pass before them in review.

He first attempts to show, that this objection is futile and disingenuous, because the power to
keep up standing armies, in time of peace, is vested, under the present government, in the
legislature of every state in the union, except two. Now this is so far from being true, that it is
expressly declared by the present articles of confederation, that no body of forces "Shall be kept
up by any state, in time of peace, except such number only, as in the judgment of the United
States in Congress assembled, shall be deemed requisite to garrison the forts necessary for the
defence of such state." Now, was it candid and ingenuous to endeavour to persuade the public,
that the general government had no other power than your own legislature have on this head;
when the truth is, your legislature have no authority to raise and keep up any forces?

He next tells us, that the power given by this constitution, on this head, is similar to that which
Congress possess under the present confederation. As little ingenuity is manifested in this
representation as in that of the former.

I shall not undertake to inquire whether or not Congress are vested with a power to keep up a
standing army in time of peace; it has been a subject warmly debated in Congress, more than
once, since the peace; and one of the most respectable states in the union, were so fully
convinced that they had no such power, that they expressly instructed their delegates to enter a
solemn protest against it on the journals of Congress, should they attempt to exercise it.

But should it be admitted that they have the power, there is such a striking dissimilarity between
the restrictions under which the present Congress can exercise it, and that of the proposed
government, that the comparison will serve rather to show the impropriety of vesting the
proposed government with the power, than of justifying it.

It is acknowledged by this writer, that the powers of Congress, under the present confederation,
amount to little more than that of recommending. If they determine to raise troops, they are
obliged to effect it through the authority of the state legislatures. This will, in the first instance,
be a most powerful restraint upon them, against ordering troops to be raised. But if they should
vote an army, contrary to the opinion and wishes of the people, the legislatures of the respective
states would not raise them. Besides, the present Congress hold their places at the wilt and
pleasure of the legislatures of the states who send them, and no troops can be raised, but by the
assent of nine states out of the thirteen. Compare the power proposed to be lodged in the
legislature on this head, under this constitution, with that vested in the present Congress, and
every person of the least discernment, whose understanding is not totally blinded by prejudice,
will perceive, that they bear no analogy to each other. Under the present confederation, the
representatives of nine states, out of thirteen, must assent to the raising of troops, or they cannot
be levied. Under the proposed constitution, a less number than the representatives of two states,
in the house of representatives, and the representatives of three states and an half in the senate,
with the assent of the president, may raise any number of troops they please. The present
Congress are restrained from an undue exercise of this power; from this consideration, they
know the state legislatures, through whose authority it must be carried into effect, would not
comply with the requisition for the purpose, [if] it was evidently opposed to the public good. The
proposed constitution authorizes the legislature to carry their determinations into execution,
without intervention of any other body between them and the people. The Congress under the
present form are amenable to, and removable by, the legislatures of the respective states, and are
chosen for one year only. The proposed constitution does not make the members of the
legislature accountable to, or removable by the state legislatures at all; and they are chosen, the
one house for six, and the other for two years; and cannot be removed until their time of service
is expired, let them conduct ever so badly. The public will judge, from the above comparison,
how just a claim this writer has to that candor he asserts to possess. In the mean time, to
convince him, and the advocates for this system, that I possess some share of candor, I pledge
myself to give up all opposition to it, on the head of standing armies, if the power to raise them
be restricted as it is in the present confederation; and I believe I may safely answer, not only for
myself, but for all who make the objection, that they will [not] be satisfied with less.
