The following speech by Patrick Henry was delivered to the Virginia ratifying convention, June
5, 1788.

I never will give up the power of direct taxation but for a scourge. I am willing to give it
conditionally; that is, after non-compliance with requisitions. I will do more, sir, and what I hope
will convince the most skeptical man that I am a lover of the American Union-that, in case
Virginia shall not make punctual payment, the control of our custom-houses, and the whole
regulation of trade, shall be given to Congress, and that Virginia shall depend on Congress even
for passports, till Virginia shall have paid the last farthing, and furnished the last soldier. Nay,
sir, there is another alternative to which I would consent; even that they should strike us out of
the Union, and take away from us all federal privileges, till we comply with federal requisitions:
but let it depend upon our own pleasure to pay our money in the most easy manner for our
people. Were all the states, more terrible than the mother country, to join against us, I hope
Virginia could defend herself; but, sir, the dissolution of the Union is most abhorrent to my
mind. The first thing I have at heart is American liberty; the second thing is American union; and
I hope the people of Virginia will endeavor to preserve that union. The increasing population of
the Southern States is far greater than that of New England; consequently, in a short time, they
will be far more numerous than the people of that country. Consider this, and you will find this
state more particularly interested to support American liberty, and not bind our posterity by an
improvident relinquishment of our rights. I would give the best security for a punctual
compliance with requisitions; but I beseech gentlemen, at all hazards, not to give up this
unlimited power of taxation. . . .

In this scheme of energetic government, the people will find two sets of taxgatherers-the state
and the federal sheriffs. This, it seems to me, will produce such dreadful oppression as the people
cannot possibly bear. The federal sheriff may commit what oppression, make what distresses, he
pleases, and ruin you with impunity; for how are you to tie his hands? Have you any sufficiently
decided means of preventing him from sucking your blood by speculations, commissions, and
fees? Thus thousands of your people will be most shamefully robbed: our state sheriffs, those
unfeeling blood-suckers, have, under the watchful eye of our legislature, committed the most
horrid and barbarous ravages on our people. It has required the most constant vigilance of the
legislature to keep them from totally ruining the people; a repeated succession of laws has been
made to suppress their iniquitous speculations and cruel extortions; and as often has their
nefarious ingenuity devised methods of evading the force of those laws: in the struggle they have
generally triumphed over the legislature. It is a fact that lands have been sold for five shillings,
which were worth one hundred pounds: if sheriffs, thus immediately under the eye of our state
legislature and judiciary, have dared to commit these outrages, what would they not have done if
their masters had been at Philadelphia or New York? If they perpetrate the most unwarrantable
outrage on your person or property, you cannot get redress on this side of Philadelphia or New
York; and how can you get it there? If your domestic avocations could permit you to go thither,
there you must appeal to judges sworn to support this Constitution, in opposition to that of any
state, and who may also be inclined to favor their own officers. When these harpies are aided by
excisemen, who may search, at any time, your houses, and most secret recesses, will the people
bear it? If you think so, you differ from me. Where I thought there was a possibility of such
mischiefs, I would grant power with a niggardly hand; and here there is a strong probability that
these oppressions shall actually happen. I may be told that it is safe to err on that side, because
such regulations may be made by Congress as shall restrain these officers, and because laws are
made by our representatives, and judged by righteous judges: but, Sir, as these regulations may
be made, so they may not; and many reasons there are to induce a belief that they will not, I shall
therefore be an infidel on that point till the day of my death.
