Anti-Federalist #40 is a compilation of articles.

It was a common saying among many sensible men in Great Britain and Ireland, in the time of
the war, that they doubted whether the great men of America, who had taken an active part in
favor of independence, were influenced by pure patriotism; that it was not the love of their
country they had so much at heart, as their own private, interest; that a thirst after dominion and
power, and not to protect the oppressed from the oppressor, was the great operative principle that
induced these men to oppose Britain so strenuously. This seemingly illiberal sentiment was,
however, generally denied by the well-hearted and unsuspecting friends of American liberty in
Europe, who could not suppose that men would engage in so noble a cause thro' such base
motives. But alas! The truth of the sentiment is now indisputably confirmed; facts are stubborn
things, and these set the matter beyond controversy. The new constitution and the conduct of its
despotic advocates, show that these men's doubts were really well founded. Unparalleled
duplicity! That men should oppose tyranny under a pretence of patriotism, that they might
themselves become the tyrants. How does such villainy disgrace human nature! Ah, my fellow
citizens, you have been strangely deceived indeed; when the wealthy of your own country
assisted you to expel the foreign tyrant, only with a view to substitute themselves in his stead. . .

But the members of the Federal Convention were men w e been all tried in the field of action,
say some; they have fought for American liberty. Then the more to their shame be it said; curse
on the villain who protects virgin innocence only with a view that he may himself become the
ravisher; so that if the assertion were true, it only turns to their disgrace; but as it happens it is
not truth, or at least only so in part. This was a scheme taken by the despots and their sycophants
to bias the public mind in favor of the constitution. For the convention was composed of a
variety of characters: ambitious men, Jesuits, tories, lawyers, etc., formed the majority, whose
similitude to each other, consisted only in their determination to lord it over their fellow citizens;
like the rays that converging from every direction meet in a point, their sentiments and
deliberations concentered in tyranny alone; they were unanimous in forming a government that
should raise the fortunes and respectability of the well born few, and oppress the plebeians.

PHILADELPHIENSIS

Does our soil produce no more Washington's? Is there none who would oppose the attempt to
establish a government by force? Can we not call from the fields, the counters, the bar, and
mechanics' shops, any more Generals? Is our soil exhausted? And does any one suppose that the
Americans, like the Romans, will submit to an army merely because they have conquered a
foreign enemy? . . .

AN AMERICAN

I revere the characters of some of the gentlemen that composed the convention at Philadelphia,
yet I think they were human, and subject to imposition and error, as well as the rest of mankind.
You lost eight or ten years of your lives and labor by the last war, and you were left at last with
your debts and encumbrances on you, and numbers of you were soon after the close of it, sued
and harassed for them. Your persons have been put into a loathsome prison, and others of you
have had your property sold for taxes, and sometimes for one tenth of its former and actual value
and you now pay very grievous and heavy taxes, double and treble what you paid before the war;
and should you adopt this new government, your taxes will be great, increased to support their . .
. servants and retainers, who will be multiplied upon you to keep you in obedience, and collect
their duties, taxes, impositions, and excises. Some of you may say the rich men were virtuous in
the last war; yes, my countrymen, they had reason then to be so! Our liberty then was in dispute
with a mighty and powerful tyrant, and it was for their interest to promote and carry on the
opposition, as long as they could stay at home and send the common people into the field to fight
their battles. After the war began, they could not with decency recede, for the sword and enemy
were at the very entrance of their gates. The case is greatly altered now; you conquered the
enemy, and the rich men now think to subdue you by their wiles and arts, or make you, or
persuade you, to do it yourselves. Their aim, I perceive, is now to destroy that liberty which you
set up as a reward for the blood and treasure you expended in the pursuit of and establishment of
it. They well know that open force will not succeed at this time, and have chosen a safer method,
by offering you a plan of a new Federal Government, contrived with great art, and shaded with
obscurity, and recommended to you to adopt; which if you do, their scheme is completed, the
yoke is -fixed on your necks, and you will be undone, perhaps for ever, and your boasted liberty
is but a sound, Farewell! Be wise, be watchful, guard yourselves against the dangers that are
concealed in this plan of a new Federal Government.

A FARMER AND PLANTER

Make the best of this new government-say it is composed of any thing but inspiration-you ought
to be extremely cautious, watchful, jealous of your liberty; for, instead of securing your rights,
you may lose them forever. If a wrong step be now made, the republic may be lost forever. If this
new government will not come up to the expectation of the people, and they shall be
disappointed, their liberty will be lost, and tyranny must and will arise. I repeat it again, and I
beg gentlemen to consider, that a wrong step, made now, will plunge us into misery, and our
republic will be lost. It will be necessary for this [Virginia Ratifying] Convention to have a
faithful historical detail of the facts that preceded the session of the federal Convention, and the
reasons that actuated its members in proposing an entire alteration of government, and to
demonstrate the dangers that awaited us. If they were of such awful magnitude as to warrant a
proposal so extremely perilous as this, I must assert, that this Convention has an absolute right to
a thorough discovery of every circumstance relative to this great event. And here I would make
this inquiry of those worthy characters who composed a part of the late federal Convention. I am
sure they were fully impressed with the necessity of forming a great consolidated government,
instead of a confederation. That this is a consolidated government is demonstrably clear; and the
danger of such a government is, to my mind, very striking. I have the highest veneration for
those gentlemen; but, sir, give me leave to demand: What right had they to say, We, the people?
My political curiosity, exclusive of my anxious solicitude for the public welfare, leads me to ask:
Who authorized them to speak the language of, We, the people, instead of, We, the states? States
are the characteristics and the soul of a confederation. If the states be not the agents of this
compact, it must be one great, consolidated, national government, of the people of all the states. I
have the highest respect for those gentlemen who formed the Convention, and, were some of
them not here, I would express some testimonial of esteem for them. America had, on a former
occasion, put the utmost confidence in them-a confidence which was well placed; and I am sure,
sir, I would give up any thing to them; I would cheerfully confide in them as my representatives.
But, sir, on this great occasion, I would demand the cause of their conduct. Even from that
illustrious man who saved us by his valor, I would have a reason for his conduct. . . . That they
exceeded their power is perfectly clear. . . . The federal Convention ought to have amended the
old system; for this purpose they were solely delegated; the object of their mission extended to
no other consideration. You must, therefore, forgive the solicitation of one unworthy member to
know what danger could have arisen under the present Confederation, and what are the causes of
this proposal to change our government.

PATRICK HENRY

What then are we to think of the motives and designs of those men who are urging the implicit
and immediate adoption of the proposed government; are they fearful, that if you exercise your
good sense and discernment, you will discover the masqued aristocracy, that they are attempting
to smuggle upon you under the suspicious garb of republicanism? When we find that the
principal agents in this business are the very men who fabricated the form of government, it
certainly ought to be conclusive evidence of their invidious design to deprive us of our liberties.
The circumstances attending this matter, are such as should in a peculiar manner excite your
suspicion; it might not be useless to take a review of some of them.

In many of the states, particularly in this [Pennsylvania] and the northern states, there are
aristocratic juntos of the well-horn few, who have been zealously endeavoring since the
establishment of their constitutions, to humble that offensive upstart, equal liberty; but all their
efforts were unavailing, the ill-bred churl obstinately kept his assumed station. . . .

A comparison of the authority under which the convention acted, and their form of government,
will show that they have despised their delegated power, and assumed sovereignty; that they
have entirely annihilated the old confederation, and the particular governments of the several
States, and instead thereof have established one general government that is to pervade the union;
constituted on the most unequal principles, destitute of accountability to its constituents, and as
despotic in its nature, as the Venetian aristocracy; a government that will give full scope to the
magnificent designs of the well-horn, a government where tyranny may glut its vengeance on the
low-born, unchecked by an odious bill of rights. . . ; and yet as a blind upon the understandings
of the people, they have continued the forms of the particular governments, and termed the
whole a confederation of the United States, pursuant to the sentiments of that profound, but
corrupt politician Machiavel, who advises any one who would change the constitution of a state
to keep as much as possible to the old forms; for then the people seeing the same officers, the
same formalities, courts of justice and other outward appearances, are insensible of the alteration,
and believe themselves in possession of their old government. Thus Caesar, when he seized the
Roman liberties, caused himself to be chosen dictator (which was an ancient office), continued
the senate, the consuls, the tribunes, the censors, and all other offices and forms of the
commonwealth; and yet changed Rome from the most free, to the most tyrannical government in
the world. . . .

The late convention, in the majesty of its assumed omnipotence, have not even condescended to
submit the plan of the new government to the confederation of the people, the true source of
authority; but have called upon them by their several constitutions, to 'assent to and ratify' in
toto, what they have been pleased to decree; just as the grand monarch of France requires the
parliament of Paris to register his edicts without revision or alteration, which is necessary
previous to their execution. . . .

If you are in doubt about the nature and principles of the proposed government, view the conduct
of its authors and patrons: that affords the best explanation, the most striking comment.

The evil genius of darkness presided at its birth, it came forth under the veil of mystery, its true
features being carefully concealed, and every deceptive art has been and is practicing to have this
spurious brat received as the genuine offspring of heaven-born liberty. So fearful are its patrons
that you should discern the imposition, that they have hurried on its adoption, with the greatest
precipitation. . .

After so recent a triumph over British despots, after such torrents of blood and treasure have
been spent, after involving ourselves in the distresses of an arduous war, and incurring such a
debt for the express purpose of asserting the rights of humanity; it is truly astonishing that a set
of men among ourselves should have the effrontery to attempt the destruction of our liberties.
But in this enlightened age to hope to dupe the people by the arts they are practicing is still more
extraordinary. . .

The advocates of this plan have artfully attempted to veil over the true nature and principles of it
with the names of those respectable characters that by consummate cunning and address they
have prevailed upon to sign it; and what ought to convince the people of the deception and excite
their apprehensions, is that with every advantage which education, the science of government
and of law, the knowledge of history and superior talents and endowments, furnish the authors
and advocates of this plan with, they have from its publication exerted all their power and
influence to prevent all discussion of the subject, and when this could not be prevented they have
constantly avoided the ground of argument and recurred to declamation, sophistry and personal
abuse, but principally relied upon the magic of names. . . . Emboldened by the sanction of the
august name of a Washington, that they have prostituted to their purpose, they have presumed to
overleap the usual gradations to absolute power, and have attempted to seize at once upon the
supremacy of dominion.

CENTINEL

. . . Another thing they tell us, that the constitution must be good, from the characters which
composed the Convention that framed it. It is graced with the names of a Washington and a
Franklin. Illustrious names, we know-worthy characters in civil society. Yet we cannot suppose
them to be infallible guides; neither yet that a man must necessarily incur guilt to himself merely
by dissenting from them in opinion. We cannot think the noble general has the same ideas with
ourselves, with regard to the rules of right and wrong. We cannot think he acts a very consistent
part, or did through the whole of the contest with Great Britain. Notwithstanding he wielded the
sword in defense of American liberty, yet at the same time was, and is to this day, living upon
the labors of several hundreds of miserable Africans, as free born as himself; and some of them
very likely, descended from parents who, in point of property and dignity in their own country,
might cope with any man in America. We do not conceive we are to be overborne by the weight
of any names, however revered. "ALL MEN ARE BORN FREE AND EQUAL"......

THE YEOMANRY OF MASSACHUSETTS
