The following essay was signed by Consider Arms, Malichi Maynard, and Samuel Field. It was
taken from The Hampshire Gazette of April 9, 1788.

We the subscribers being of the number, who did not assent to the ratification of the federal
constitution, under consideration in the late state convention, held at Boston, to which we were
called by the suffrages of the corporations to which we respectively belong-beg leave, through
the channel of your paper, to lay before the public in general, and our constituents in particular,
the reasons of our dissent, and the principles which governed us in our decision of this important
question.

Fully convinced, ever since the late revolution, of the necessity of a firm, energetic government,
we should have rejoiced in an opportunity to have given our assent to such a one; and should in
the present case, most cordially have done it, could we at the same time been happy to have seen
the liberties of the people and the rights of mankind properly guarded and secured. We conceive
that the very notion of government carries along with it the idea of justice and equity, and that
the whole design of instituting government in the world, was to preserve men's properties from
rapine, and their bodies from violence and bloodshed.

These propositions being established, we conceive must of necessity produce the following
consequence: That every constitution or system, which does not quadrate with this original
design, is not government, but in fact a subversion of it.

Having premised thus much, we proceed to mention some things in this constitution to which we
object, and to enter into an inquiry, whether, and how far they coincide with those simple and
original notions of government before mentioned.

In the first place, as direct taxes are to be apportioned according to the numbers in each state, and
as Massachusetts has none in it but what are declared free men, so the whole, blacks as well as
whites, must be numbered; this must therefore operate against us, as two-fifths of the slaves in
the southern states are to be left out of the numeration. Consequently, three Massachusetts
infants will increase the tax equal to five sturdy full-grown Negroes of theirs, who work every
day in the week for their masters, saving the Sabbath, upon which they are allowed to get
something for their own support. We can see no justice in this way of apportioning taxes. Neither
can we see any good reason why this was consented to on the part of our delegates.

We suppose it next to impossible that every individual in this vast continental union, should have
his wish with regard to every single article composing a frame of government. And therefore,
although we think it More agreeable to the principles of republicanism, that elections should be
annual, yet as the elections in our own state government are so, we did not view it so dangerous
to the liberties of the people, that we should have rejected the constitution merely on account of
the biennial elections of the representatives-had we been sure that the people have any security
even of this. But this we could not find. For although it is said, that "the House of
Representatives shall be chosen every second year, by the people of the several states," etc., and
that "the times, places and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives, shall be
prescribed in each state by the legislature thereof," yet all this is wholely superseded by a
subsequent provision, which empowers Congress at any time to enact a law, whereby such
regulations may be altered, except as to the places of choosing senators. Here we conceive the
people may be very materially injured, and in time reduced to a state of as abject vassalage as
any people were under the control of the most mercenary despot that ever tarnished the pages of
history. The depravity of human nature, illustrated by examples from history, will warrant us to
say, it may be possible, if not probable, that the congress may be composed of men, who will
wish to burden and oppress the people. In such case, will not their inventions be fruitful enough
to devise occasions for postponing the elections? And if they can do this once, they can twice; if
they can twice, they can thrice, so by degrees render themselves absolute and perpetual. Or, if
they choose, they have another expedient. They can alter the place of holding elections. They can
say, whatever the legislature of this state may order to the contrary, that all the elections of our
representatives shall be made at Mechias, or at Williamstown. Consequently, nine- tenths of the
people will never vote. And if this should be thought a measure favorable to their reelection, or
the election of some tool for their mercenary purposes, we doubt not it will be thus ordered. But
says the advocates for the constitution, "it is not likely this will ever happen; we are not to expect
our rulers will ever proceed to a wanton exercise of the powers given them." But what reason
have we more than past ages, to expect that we shall be blessed with impeccable rulers? We
think not any. Although it has been said that every generation grows wiser and wiser, yet we
have no reason to think they grow better and better. And therefore the probability lies upon the
dark side. Does not the experience of past ages leach, that men have generally exercised all the
powers they had given them, and even have usurped upon them, in order to accomplish their own
sinister and avaricious designs, whenever they thought they could do it with impunity? This we
presume will not be denied. And it appeared to us that the arguments made use of by the favorers
of the constitution, in the late convention at Boston, proceeded upon the plan of righteousness in
those who are to rule over us, by virtue of this new form of government. But these arguments, we
confess, could have no weight with us, while we judge them to be founded altogether upon a
slippery perhaps.

We are sensible, that in order to the due administration of government, it is necessary that certain
powers should be delegated to the rulers from the people. At the same time, we think they ought
carefully to guard against giving so much as will enable those rulers, by that means, at once, or
even in process of time, to render themselves absolute and despotic. This we think is the case
with the form of government lately submitted to our consideration. We could not, therefore,
acting uprightly, consulting our own good and the good of our constituents, give our assent unto
it. We could not then and we still cannot see, that because people are many times guilty of crimes
and deserving of punishment, that it from thence follows the authority ought to have power to
punish them when they are not guilty, or to punish the innocent with the guilty without
discrimination, which amounts to the same thing. But this we think in fact to be the case as to
this federal constitution. For the congress, whether they have provocation or not, can at any time
order the elections in any or all the states to be conducted in such manner as wholely to defeat
and render entirely nugatory the intention of those elections, and convert that which was
considered and intended to be the palladium of the liberties of the people-the grand bulwark
against any invasion upon them-into a formidable engine, by which to overthrow them all, and
thus involve them in the depth of misery and distress. But it was pled by some of the ablest
advocates of the constitution, that if congress should exercise such powers to the prejudice of the
people (and they did not deny but they could if they should be disposed) they (the people) would
not suffer it. They would have recourse to the ultima ratio, the dernier resort of the oppressed-the
sword.

But it appeared to us a piece of superlative incongruity indeed, that the people, whilst in the full
and indefeasible possession of their liberties and privileges, should be so very profuse, so very
liberal in the disposal of them, as consequently to place themselves in a predicament miserable to
an extreme. So wretched indeed, that they may at once be reduced to the sad alternative of
yielding themselves vassals into the hands of a venal and corrupt administration, whose only
wish may be to aggrandize themselves and families-to wallow in luxury and every species of
dissipation, and riot upon the spoils of the community; or take up the sword and involve their
country in all the horrors of a civil war-the consequences of which, we think, we may venture to
augur will more firmly rivet their shackles and end in the entailment of vassalage to their
posterity. We think this by no means can fall within the description of government before
mentioned. Neither can we think these suggestions merely chimerical, or that they proceed from
an overheated enthusiasm in favor of republicanism; neither yet from an illplaced detestation of
aristocracy; but from the apparent danger the people are in by establishing this constitution.
When we take a forward view of the proposed congress-seated in the federal city, ten miles
square, fortified and replenished with all kinds of military stores and every implement; with a
navy at command on one side, and a land army on the other-we say, when we view them thus
possessed of the sword in one hand and the purse strings of the people in the other, we can see no
security left for them in the enjoyment of their liberties, but what may proceed from the bare
possibility that this supreme authority of the nation may be possessed of virtue and integrity
sufficient to influence them in the administration of equal justice and equity among those whom
they shall govern. But why should we voluntarily choose to trust our all upon so precarious a
tenure as this? We confess it gives us pain to anticipate the future scene: a scene presenting to
view miseries so complicated and extreme, that it may be part of the charms of eloquence to
extenuate, or the power of art to remove.

CONSIDER ARMS

MALICHI MAYNARD

SAMUEL FIELD
