Following are four essays by "THE FEDERAL FARMER"

.... It being impracticable for the people to assemble to make laws, they must elect legislators,
and assign men to the different departments of the government. In the representative branch we
must expect chiefly to collect the confidence of the people, and in it to find almost entirely the
force of persuasion. In forming this branch, therefore, several important considerations must be
attended to. It must possess abilities to discern the situation of the people and of public affairs, a
disposition to sympathize with the people, and a capacity and inclination to make laws congenial
to their circumstances and condition. It must afford security against interest combinations,
corruption and influence. It must possess the confidence, and have the voluntary support of the
people.

I think these positions will not be controverted, nor the one I formerly advanced, that a fair and
equal representation is that in which the interests, feelings, opinions and views of the people are
collected, in such manner as they would be were the people all assembled. Having made these
general observations, I shall proceed to consider further my principal position, viz. that there is
no substantial representation of the people provided for in a government, in which the most
essential powers, even as to the internal police of the country, are proposed to be lodged; and to
propose certain amendments as to the representative branch....

The representation is insubstantial and ought to be increased. In matters where there is much
room for opinion, you will not expect me to establish my positions with mathematical certainty;
you must only expect my observations to be candid, and such as are well founded in the mind of
the writer. I am in a field where doctors disagree; and as to genuine representation, though no
feature in government can be more important, perhaps, no one has been less understood, and no
one that has received so imperfect a consideration by political writers. The ephori in Sparta, and
the tribunes in Rome, were but the shadow; the representation in Great Britain is unequal and
insecure. In America we have done more in establishing this important branch on its true
principles, than, perhaps, all the world besides. Yet even here, I conceive, that very great
improvements in representation may be made. In fixing this branch, the situation of the people
must be surveyed, and the number of representatives and forms of election apportioned to that
situation. When we find a numerous people settled in a fertile and extensive country, possessing
equality, and few or none of them oppressed with riches or wants, it ought to be the anxious care
of the constitution and laws, to arrest them from national depravity, and to preserve them in their
happy condition. A virtuous people make just laws, and good laws tend to preserve unchanged a
virtuous people. A virtuous and happy people by laws uncongenial to their characters, may easily
be gradually changed into servile and depraved creatures. Where the people, or their
representatives, make the laws, it is probable they will generally be fitted to the national
character and circumstances, unless the representation be partial, and the imperfect substitute of
the people. However the people may be electors, if the representation be so formed as to give one
or more of the natural classes of men in society an undue ascendancy over others, it is imperfect;
the former will gradually become masters, and the latter slaves. It is the first of all among the
political balances, to preserve in its proper station each of these classes. We talk of balances in
the legislature, and among the departments of government; we ought to carry them to the body of
the people. Since I advanced the idea of balancing the several orders of men in a community, in
forming a genuine representation, and seen that idea considered as chimerical, I have been
sensibly struck with a sentence in the Marquis Beccaria's treatise. This sentence was quoted by
Congress in 1774, and is as follows:-"In every society there is an effort continually tending to
confer on one part the height of power and happiness, and to reduce the others to the extreme of
weakness and misery; the intent of good laws is to oppose this effort, and to diffuse their
influence universally and equally." Add to this Montesquieu's opinion, that "in a free state every
man, who is supposed to be a free agent, ought to be concerned in his own government:
therefore, the legislative should reside in the whole body of the people, or their representatives."
It is extremely clear that these writers had in view the several orders of men in society, which we
call aristocratical, democratical, mercantile, mechanics etc., and perceived the efforts they are
constantly, from interested and ambitious views, disposed to make to elevate themselves and
oppress others. Each order must have a share in the business of legislation actually and
efficiently. It is deceiving a people to tell them they are electors, and can choose their legislators,
if they cannot, in the nature of things, choose men from among themselves, and genuinely like
themselves. I wish you to take another idea along with you. We are not only to balance these
natural efforts, but we are also to guard against accidental combinations; combinations founded
in the connections of offices and private interests, both evils which are increased in proportion as
the number of men, among which the elected must be, are decreased. To set this matter in a
proper point of view, we must form some general ideas and descriptions of the different classes
of men, as they may be divided by occupation and politically. The first class is the aristocratical.
There are three kinds of aristocracy spoken of in this country-the first is a constitutional one,
which does not exist in the United States in our common acceptation of the word. Montesquieu,
it is true, observes that where part of the persons in a society, for want of property, age, or moral
character, are excluded any share in the government, the others, who alone are the constitutional
electors and elected, form this aristocracy. This, according to him, exists in each of the United
States, where a considerable number of persons, as all convicted of crimes, under age, or not
possessed of certain property, are excluded any share in the government. The second is an
aristocratic faction, a junto of unprincipled men, often distinguished for their wealth or abilities,
who combine together and make their object their private interests and aggrandizement. The
existence of this description is merely accidental, but particularly to be guarded against. The
third is the natural aristocracy; this term we use to designate a respectable order of men, the line
between whom and the natural democracy is in some degree arbitrary. We may place men on one
side of this line, which others may place on the other, and in all disputes between the few and the
many, a considerable number are wavering and uncertain themselves on which side they are, or
ought to be. In my idea of our natural aristocracy in the United States, I include about four or
five thousand men; and among these I reckon those who have been placed in the offices of
governors, of members of Congress, and state senators generally, in the principal officers of the
army and militia, the superior judges, the most eminent professional men, etc., and men of large
property. The other persons and orders in the community form the natural democracy; this
includes in general, the yeomanry, the subordinate officers, civil and military, the fishermen,
mechanics and traders, many of the merchants and professional men. It is easy to perceive that
men of these two classes, the aristocratical and democratical, with views equally honest, have
sentiments widely different, especially respecting public and private expenses, salaries, taxes,
etc. Men of the first class associate more extensively, have a high sense of honor, possess
abilities, ambition, and general knowledge; men of the second class are not so much used to
combining great objects; they possess less ambition, and a larger share of honesty; their
dependence is principally on middling and small estates, industrious pursuits, and hard labor,
while that of the former is principally on the emoluments of large estates, and of the chief offices
of government. Not only the efforts of these two great parties are to be balanced, but other
interests and parties also, which do not always oppress each other merely for want of power, and
for fear of the consequences; though they, in fact, mutually depend on each other. Yet such are
their general views, that the merchants alone would never fail to make laws favorable to
themselves and oppressive to the farmers. The farmers alone would act on like principles; the
former would tax the land, the latter the trade. The manufacturers are often disposed to contend
for monopolies; buyers make every exertion to lower prices; and sellers to raise them. Men who
live by fees and salaries endeavor to raise them; and the part of the people who pay them,
endeavor to lower them; the public creditors to augment the taxes, and the people at large to
lessen them. Thus, in every period of society, and in all the transactions of men, we see parties
verifying the observation made by the Marquis; and those classes which have not their centinels
in the government, in proportion to what they have to gain or lose, must infallibly be ruined.

Efforts among parties are not merely confined to property. They contend for rank and
distinctions; all their passions in turn are enlisted in political controversies. Men, elevated in
society, are often disgusted with the changeableness of the democracy, and the latter are often
agitated with the passions of jealousy and envy. The yeomanry possess a large share of property
and strength, are nervous and firm in their opinions and habits; the mechanics of towns are
ardent and changeable-honest and credulous, they are inconsiderable for numbers, weight and
strength, not always sufficiently stable for supporting free governments; the fishing interest
partakes partly of the strength and stability of the landed, and partly of the changeableness of the
mechanic interest. As to merchants and traders, they are our agents in almost all money
transactions, give activity to government, and possess a considerable share of influence in it. It
has been observed by an able writer, that frugal industrious merchants are generally advocates
for liberty. It is an observation, I believe, well founded, that the schools produce but few
advocates for republican forms of government. Gentlemen of the law, divinity, physic, etc.,
probably form about a fourth part of the people; yet their political influence, perhaps, is equal to
that of all the other descriptions of men. If we may judge from the appointments to Congress, the
legal characters will often, in a small representation, be the majority; but the more the
representatives are increased, the more of the farmers, merchants, etc., will be found to be
brought into the government.

These general observations will enable you to discern what I intend by different classes, and the
general scope of my ideas, when I contend for uniting and balancing their interests, feelings,
opinions, and views in the legislature. We may not only so unite and balance these as to prevent
a change in the government by the gradual exaltation of one part to the depression of others, but
we may derive many other advantages from the combination and full representation. A small
representation can never be well informed as to the circumstances of the people. The members of
it must be too far removed from the people, in general, to sympathize with them, and too few to
communicate with them. A representation must be extremely imperfect where the representatives
are not circumstanced to make the proper communications to their constituents, and where the
constituents in turn cannot, with tolerable convenience, make known their wants, circumstances,
and opinions to their representatives. Where there is but one representative to 30,000 or 40,000
inhabitants, it appears to me, he can only mix and be acquainted with a few respectable
characters among his constituents. Even double the general representation, and then there must
be a very great distance between the representatives and the people in general represented. On
the proposed plan, the state of Delaware, the city of Philadelphia, the state of Rhode Island, the
province of Maine, the county of Suffolk in Massachusetts, will have one representative each.
There can be but little personal knowledge, or but few communications, between him and the
people at large of either of those districts. It has been observed that mixing only with the
respectable men, he will get the best information and ideas from them; he will also receive
impressions favorable to their purposes particularly....

Could we get over all our difficulties respecting a balance of interests and party efforts, to raise
some and oppress others, the want of sympathy, information and intercourse between the
representatives and the people, an insuperable difficulty will still remain. I mean the constant
liability of a small number of representatives to private combinations. The tyranny of the one, or
the licentiousness of the multitude, are, in my mind, but small evils, compared with the factions
of the few. It is a consideration well worth pursuing, how far this house of representatives will be
liable to be formed into private juntos, how far influenced by expectations of appointments and
offices, how far liable to be managed by the president and senate, and how far the people will
have confidence in them....

THE FEDERAL FARMER
