. . . . Why in England have the revolutions always ended in stipulations in favor of general
liberty, equal laws, and the common rights of the people, and in most other countries in favor
only of a few influential men? The reasons, in my mind, are obvious. In England the people have
been substantially represented in many respects; in the other countries it has not been so. Perhaps
a small degree of attention to a few simple facts will illustrate this. In England, from the
oppressions of the Norman Kings to the revolution in 1688, during which period of two or three
hundred years, the English liberties were ascertained and established, the aristocratic part of that
nation was substantially represented by a very large number of nobles, possessing similar
interests and feelings with those they represented. The body of the people, about four or five
millions, then mostly a frugal landed people, were represented by about five hundred
representatives, taken not from the order of men which formed the aristocracy, but from the body
of the people, and possessed of the same interests and feelings. De Lolme, speaking of the
British representation, expressly founds all his reasons on this union; this similitude of interests,
feelings, views and circumstances. He observes the English have preserved their liberties,
because they and their leaders or representatives have been strictly united in interests, and in
contending for general liberty. Here we see a genuine balance founded in the actual state of
things. The whole community, probably, not more than two-fifths more numerous than we now
are, were represented by seven or eight hundred men; the barons stipulated with the common
people, and the king with the whole. Had the legal distinction between lords and commons been
broken down, and the people of that island been called upon to elect forty-five senators, and one
hundred and twenty representatives, about the proportion we propose to establish, their whole
legislature evidently would have been of the natural aristocracy, and the body of the people
would not have had scarcely a single sincere advocate. Their interests would have been
neglected, general and equal liberty forgot, and the balance lost. Contests and conciliations, as in
most other countries, would have been merely among the few, and as it might have been
necessary to serve their purposes, the people at large would have been flattered or threatened,
and probably not a single stipulation made in their favor. In Rome the people were miserable,
though they bad three orders, the consuls, senators, and tribunes, and approved the laws, and all
for want of a genuine representation. The people were too numerous to assemble, and do any
thing properly themselves. The voice of a few, the dupes of artifice, was called the voice of the
people. It is difficult for the people to defend themselves against the arts and intrigues of the
great, but by selecting a suitable number of men fixed to their interests to represent them, and to
oppose ministers and senators. . . . [Much] depends on the number of the men selected, and the
manner of doing it. To be convinced of this, we need only attend to the reason of the case, the
conduct of the British commons, and of the Roman tribunes. Equal liberty prevails in England,
because there was a representation of the people, in fact and reality, to establish it. Equal liberty
never prevailed in Rome because there was but the shadow of a representation. There were
consuls in Rome annually elected to execute the laws; several hundred senators represented the
great families; the body of the people annually chose tribunes from among themselves to defend
them and to secure their rights; I think the number of tribunes annually chosen never exceeded
ten. This representation, perhaps, was not proportionally so numerous as the representation
proposed in the new plan; but the difference will not appear to be so great, when it shall be
recollected, that these tribunes were chosen annually, that the great patrician families were not
admitted to these offices of tribunes, and that the people of Italy who elected the tribunes were a
long while, if not always, a small people compared with the people of the United States. What
was the consequence of this trifling representation? The people of Rome always elected for their
tribunes men conspicuous for their riches, military commands, professional popularity, etc., great
commoners, between whom and the noble families there was only the shadowy difference of
legal distinction. Among all the tribunes the people chose for several centuries, they had scarcely
five real friends to their interests. These tribunes lived, felt and saw, not like the people, but like
the great patrician families, like senators and great officers of state, to get into which it was
evident by their conduct, was their sole object. These tribunes often talked about the rights and
prerogatives of the people, and that was all; for they never even attempted to establish equal
liberty. So far from establishing the rights of the people, they suffered the senate, to the
exclusion of the people, to engross the powers of taxation; those excellent and almost only real
weapons of defense even the people of England possess. The tribunes obtained that the people
should be eligible to some of the great offices of state, and marry, if they pleased, into the noble
families; these were advantages in their nature, confined to a few elevated commoners, and of
trifling importance to the people at large. Nearly the same observations may be made as to the
ephori of Sparta.

We may amuse ourselves with names; but the fact is, men will be governed by the motives and
temptations that surround their situation. Political evils to be guarded against are in the human
character, and not in the name of patrician or plebeian. Had the people of Italy, in the early
period of the republic, selected yearly or biennially, four or five hundred of their best informed
men, emphatically from among themselves, these representatives would have formed an honest
respectable assembly, capable of combining in them the views and exertions of the people and
their respectability would have procured them honest and able leaders, and we should have seen
equal liberty established. True liberty stands in need of a fostering band,- from the days of Adam
she has found but one temple to dwell in securely. She has laid the foundation of one, perhaps
her last in America; whether this is to be completed and have duration, is yet a question. Equal
liberty never yet found many advocates among the great. It is a disagreeable truth that power
perverts men's views in a greater degree than public employments inform their understandings.
They become hardened in certain maxims, and more lost to fellow feelings. Men may always be
too cautious to commit alarming and glaring iniquities; but they, as well as systems, are liable to
be corrupted by slow degrees. Junius well observes, we are not only to guard against what men
will do, but even against what they may do. Men in high public offices are in stations where they
gradually lose sight of the people, and do not often think of attending to them, except when
necessary to answer private purposes.

The body of the people must have this true representative security placed some where in the
nation. And in the United States, or in any extended empire, I am fully persuaded [it] can be
placed no where, but in the forms of a federal republic, where we can divide and place it in
several state or district legislatures, giving the people in these the means of opposing heavy
internal taxes and oppressive measures in the proper stages. A great empire contains the amities
and animosities of a world within itself. We are not like the people of England, one people
compactly settled on a small island, with a great city filled with frugal merchants, serving as a
common centre of liberty and union. We are dispersed, and it is impracticable for any but the few
to assemble in one place. The few must be watched, checked, and often resisted. Tyranny has
ever shown a predilection to be in close amity with them, or the one man. Drive it from kings
and it flies to senators, to decemviri, to dictators, to tribunes, to popular leaders, to military
chiefs, etc. De Lolme well observes, that in societies, laws which were to be equal to all are soon warped to
the private interests of the administrators, and made to defend the usurpations of a few. The
English, who had tasted the sweets of equal laws, were aware of this, and though they restored
their king, they carefully delegated to parliament the advocates of freedom.

I have often lately heard it observed that it will do very well for a people to make a constitution
and ordain that at stated periods they will choose, in a certain manner, a first magistrate, a given
number of senators and representatives, and let them have all power to do as they please. This
doctrine, however it may do for a small republic-as Connecticut, for instance, where the people
may choose so many senators and representatives to assemble in the legislature, [representing] in
an eminent degree, the interests, the views, feelings, and genuine sentiments of the people
themselves - can never be admitted in an extensive country. And when this power is lodged in
the hands of a few, not to limit the few is but one step short of giving absolute power to one man.
In a numerous representation the abuse of power is a common injury, and has no temptation;
among the few, the abuse of power may often operate to the private emolument of those who
abuse it.

THE FEDERAL FARMER
