One of largest series of Antifederalist essays was penned under the pseudonym "CENTINEL."
The Philadelphia Independent Gazetteer ran this 24 essay series between October 5, 1787 and
November 24, 1788.

Some historians feel most of the "Centinel" letters were written by Samuel Bryan, and a few by
Eleazer Oswald, owner of the Independent Gazetteer. A more recent study by Charles Page
Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father (Chapel Hill, 1956), refrains from making such theory
This selection is from the eleventh letter of "Centinel," appearing in the Independent Gazetteer
on January 16, 1788.

The evils of anarchy have been portrayed with all the imagery of language in the growing colors
of eloquence; the affrighted mind is thence led to clasp the new Constitution as the instrument of
deliverance, as the only avenue to safety and happiness. To avoid the possible and transitory
evils of one extreme, it is seduced into the certain and permanent misery necessarily attendant on
the other. A state of anarchy from its very nature can never be of long continuance; the greater its
violence the shorter the duration. Order and security are immediately sought by the distracted
people beneath the shelter of equal laws and the salutary restraints of regular government; and if
this be not attainable, absolute power is assumed by the one, or a few, who shall be the most
enterprising and successful. If anarchy, therefore, were the inevitable consequence of rejecting
the new Constitution, it would be infinitely better to incur it, for even then there would be at least
the chance of a good government rising out of licentiousness. But to rush at once into despotism
because there is a bare possibility of anarchy ensuing from the rejection, or from what is yet
more visionary, the small delay that would be occasioned by a revision and correction of the
proposed system of government is so superlatively weak, so fatally blind, that it is astonishing
any person of common understanding should suffer such an imposition to have the least
influence on his judgment; still more astonishing that so flimsy and deceptive a doctrine should
make converts among the enlightened freemen of America, who have so long enjoyed the
blessings of liberty. But when I view among such converts men otherwise pre-eminent it raises a
blush for the weakness of humanity that these, her brightest ornaments, should be so dimsighted
to what is self-evident to most men, that such imbecility of judgment should appear where so
much perfection was looked for. This ought to teach us to depend more on our own judgment
and the nature of the case than upon the opinions of the greatest and best of men, who, from
constitutional infirmities or particular situations, may sometimes view an object through a
delusive medium; but the opinions of great men are more frequently the dictates of ambition or
private interest.

The source of the apprehensions of this so much dreaded anarchy would upon investigation be
found to arise from the artful suggestions of designing men, and not from a rational probability
grounded on the actual state of affairs. The least reflection is sufficient to detect the fallacy to
show that there is no one circumstance to justify the prediction of such an event. On the contrary
a short time will evince, to the utter dismay and confusion of the conspirators, that a
perseverance in cramming down their scheme of power upon the freemen of this State
[Pennsylvania] will inevitably produce an anarchy destructive of their darling domination, and
may kindle a flame prejudicial to their safety. They should be cautious not to trespass too far on
the forbearance of freemen when wresting their dearest concerns, but prudently retreat from the
gathering storm.

The other specter that has been raised to terrify and alarm the people out of the exercise of their
judgment on this great occasion, is the dread of our splitting into separate confederacies or
republics, that might become rival powers and consequently liable to mutual wars from the usual
motives of contention. This is an event still more improbable than the foregoing. It is a
presumption unwarranted, either by the situation of affairs, or the sentiments of the people; no
disposition leading to it exists; the advocates of the new constitution seem to view such a
separation with horror, and its opponents are strenuously contending for a confederation that
shall embrace all America under its comprehensive and salutary protection. This hobgoblin
appears to have sprung from the deranged brain of Publius, [The Federalist] a New York writer,
who, mistaking sound for argument, has with Herculean labor accumulated myriads of
unmeaning sentences, and mechanically endeavored to force conviction by a torrent of misplaced
words. He might have spared his readers the fatigue of wading through his long-winded
disquisitions on the direful effects of the contentions of inimical states, as totally inapplicable to
the subject he was professedly treating; this writer has devoted much time, and wasted more
paper in combating chimeras of his own creation. However, for the sake of argument, I will
admit that the necessary consequence of rejecting or delaying the establishment of the new
constitution would be the dissolution of the union, and the institution of even rival and inimical
republics; yet ought such an apprehension, if well founded, to drive us into the fangs of
despotism? Infinitely preferable would be occasional wars to such an event. The former,
although a severe scourge, is transient in its continuance, and in its operation partial, but a small
proportion of the community are exposed to its greatest horrors, and yet fewer experience its
greatest evils; the latter is permanent and universal misery, without remission or exemption. As
passing clouds obscure for a time the splendor of the sun, so do wars interrupt the welfare of
mankind; but despotism is a settled gloom that totally extinguishes happiness. Not a ray of
comfort can penetrate to cheer the dejected mind; the goad of power with unabating rigor insists
upon the utmost exaction; like a merciless taskmaster, [it] is continually inflicting the lash, and is
never satiated with the feast of unfeeling domination, or the most abject servility.

The celebrated Lord Kaims, whose disquisitions of human nature evidence extraordinary
strength of judgment and depth of investigation, says that a continual civil war, which is the most
destructive and horrible scene of human discord, is preferable to the uniformity of wretchedness
and misery attendant upon despotism; of all possible evils, as I observed in my first number, this
is the worst and the most to be dreaded.

I congratulate my fellow citizens that a good government, the greatest earthly blessing, may be
so easily obtained, that our circumstances are so favorable, that nothing but the folly of the
conspirators can produce anarchy or civil war, which would presently terminate in their
destruction and the permanent harmony of the state, alone interrupted by their ambitious
machinations.

CENTINEL
