. . . . The senate is an assembly of 26 members, two from each state; though the senators are
apportioned on the federal plan, they will vote individually. They represent the states, as bodies
politic, sovereign to certain purposes. The states being sovereign and independent, are all
considered equal, each with the other in the senate. In this we are governed solely by the ideal
equalities of sovereignties; the federal and state governments forming one whole, and the state
governments an essential part, which ought always to be kept distinctly in view, and preserved. I
feel more disposed, on reflection, to acquiesce in making them the basis of the senate, and
thereby to make it the interest and duty of the senators to preserve distinct, and to perpetuate the
respective, sovereignties they shall represent. . . .

The senate, as a legislative branch, is not large, but as an executive branch quite too numerous. It
is not to be presumed that we can form a genuine senatorial branch in the United States, a real
representation of the aristocracy and balance in the legislature, any more than we can form a
genuine representation of the people. Could we separate the aristocratical and democratical
interest, compose the senate of the former, and the house of assembly of the latter, they are too
unequal in the United States to produce a balance. Form them on pure principles, and leave each
to be supported by its real weight and connections, the senate would be feeble and the house
powerful. I say, on pure principles; because I make a distinction between a senate that derives its
weight and influence from a pure source-its numbers and wisdom, its extensive property, its
extensive and permanent connections -and a senate composed of a few men, possessing small
property, and small and unstable connections, that derives its weight and influence from a
corrupt or pernicious source: that is, merely from the power given it by the constitution and laws,
to dispose of the public offices, and the annexed emoluments, and by those means to interest
officers, and the hungry expectants of offices, in support of its measures. I wish the proposed
senate may not partake too much of the latter description.

To produce a balance and checks, the constitution proposes two branches in the legislature. But
they are so formed, that the members of both must generally be the same kind of men-men
having similar interests and views, feelings and connections - men of the same grade in society,
and who associate on all, occasions (probably, if there be any difference, the senators will be the
most democratic.) Senators and representatives thus circumstanced, as men, though convened in
two rooms to make laws, must be governed generally by the same motives and views, and
therefore pursue the same system of politics. The partitions between the two branches will be
merely those of the building in which they fit. There will not be found in them any of those
genuine balances and checks, among the real different interests, and efforts of the several classes
of men in the community we aim at. Nor can any such balances and checks be formed in the
present condition of the United States in any considerable degree of perfection. . .

Though I conclude the senators and representatives will not form in the legislature those balances
and checks which correspond with the actual state of the people, yet I approve of two branches,
because we may notwithstanding derive several advantages from them. The senate, from the
mode of its appointment, will probably be influenced to support the state governments; and, from
its periods of service will produce stability in legislation, while frequent elections may take place
in the other branch. There is generally a degree of competition between two assemblies even
composed of the same kind of men; and by this, and by means of every law passing a revision in
the second branch, caution, coolness, and deliberation are produced in the business of making
laws. By means of a democratic branch we may particularly secure personal liberty; and by
means of a senatorial branch we may particularly protect property. By the division, the house
becomes the proper body to impeach all officers for misconduct in office, and the senate the
proper court to try them; and in a country where limited powers must be lodged in the first
magistrate, the senate, perhaps, may be the most proper body to be found to have a negative upon
him in making treaties, and managing foreign affairs.

Though I agree the federal senate, in the form proposed, may be useful to many purposes, and
that it is not very necessary to alter the organization, modes of appointment, and powers of it in
several respects; yet, without alterations in others, I sincerely believe it will, in a very few years,
become the source of the greatest evils. Some of these alterations, I conceive, to be absolutely
necessary and some of them at least advisable.

1. By the confederation the members of congress are chosen annually. By Art. 1. Sect. 2. of the
constitution, the senators shall be chosen for six years. As the period of service must be, in a
considerable degree, matter of opinion on this head, I shall only make a few observations, to
explain why I think it more advisable to limit it to three or four years.

The people of this country have not been accustomed to so long appointments in their state
governments. They have generally adopted annual elections. The members of the present
congress are chosen yearly, who, from the nature and multiplicity of their business, ought to be
chosen for longer periods than the federal senators. Men six years in office absolutely contract
callous habits, and cease, in too great a degree, to feel their dependence, and for the condition of
their constituents. Senators continued in offices three or four years, will be in them longer than
any popular erroneous opinions will probably continue to actuate their electors. Men appointed
for three or four years will generally be long enough in office to give stability, and amply to
acquire political information. By a change of legislators, as often as circumstances will permit,
political knowledge is diffused more extensively among the people, and the attention of the
electors and elected more constantly kept alive-circumstances of infinite importance in a free
country. Other reasons might be added, but my subject is too extensive to admit of my dwelling
upon less material points.

2. When the confederation was formed, it was considered essentially necessary that the members
of congress should at any time be recalled by their respective states, when the states should see
fit, and others be sent in their room. I do not think it is less necessary that this principle should be
extended to the members of congress under the new constitution, and especially to the senators. I
have had occasion several times to observe, that let us form a federal constitution as extensively,
and on the best principles in our power, we must, after all, trust a vast deal to a few men, who,
far removed from their constituents, will administer the federal government. There is but little
danger these men will feel too great a degree of dependence. The necessary and important object
to be attended to, is to make them feel dependent enough. Men elected for several years, several
hundred miles distant from their states, possessed of very extensive powers, and the means of
paying themselves, will not, probably, be oppressed with a sense of dependence and
responsibility.

The senators will represent sovereignties, which generally have, and always ought to retain, the
power of recalling their agents. The principle of responsibility is strongly felt in men who are
liable to be recalled and censured for their misconduct; and, if we may judge from experience,
the latter will not abuse the power of recalling their members; to possess it will at least be a
valuable check. It is in the nature of all delegated power, that the constituents should retain the
right to judge concerning the conduct of their representatives. They must exercise the power, and
their decision itself, their approving or disapproving that conduct implies a right, a power to
continue in office, or to remove from it. But whenever the substitute acts under a constitution,
then it becomes necessary that the power of recalling him be expressed. The reasons for lodging
a power to recall are stronger, as they respect the senate, than as they respect the representatives.
The latter will be more frequently elected, and changed of course, and being chosen by the
people at large, it would be more difficult for the people than for the legislatures to take the
necessary measures for recalling. But even the people, if the powers will be more beneficial to
them than injurious, ought to possess it. The people are not apt to wrong a man who is steady and
true to their interests. They may for a while be misled by party representations, and leave a good
man out of office unheard; but every recall supposes a deliberate decision, and a fair hearing.
And no man who believes his conduct proper, and the result of honest views, will be the less
useful in his public character on account of the examination his actions may be liable to. A man
conscious of the contrary conduct ought clearly to be restrained by the apprehensions of a trial. I
repeat it, it is interested combinations and factions we are particularly to guard against in the
federal government, and all the rational means that can be put into the hands of the people to
prevent them ought to be provided and furnished for them. Where there is a power to recall,
trusty sentinels among the people, or in the state legislatures will have a fair opportunity to
become useful. If the members in congress from the states join in such combinations, or favor
them, or pursue a pernicious line of conduct, the most attentive among the people or in the state
legislatures may formally charge them before their constituents. The very apprehensions of such
constitutional charge may prevent many of the evils mentioned; and the recalling the members of
a single state, a single senator or representative, may often prevent many more. Nor do 1, at
present, discover any danger in such proceedings, as every man who shall move for a recall will
put his reputation at stake, to show he has reasonable grounds for his motion. It is not probable
such motions will be made unless there be good apparent grounds for succeeding. Nor can the
charge or motion be anything more than the attack of an individual or individuals unless a
majority of the constituents shall see cause to go into the inquiry. Further, the circumstances of
such a power being lodged in the constituents will tend continually to keep up their watchfulness,
as well as the attention and dependence of the federal senators and representatives.

3. By the confederation it is provided, that no delegate shall serve more than three years in any
term of six years; and thus, by the forms of the government a rotation of members is produced. A
like principle has been adopted in some of the state governments, and also in some ancient and
modern republics. Whether this exclusion of a man for a given period, after he shall have served
a given time, ought to be ingrafted into a constitution or not is a question, the proper decision [of
which] materially depends upon the leading features of the government. Some governments are
so formed as to produce a sufficient fluctuation and change of members; in the ordinary course
of elections proper numbers of new members are from time to time brought into the legislature,
and a proportionate number of old ones go out, mix, and become diffused among the people.
This is the case with all numerous representative legislatures, the members of which are
frequently elected, and constantly within the view of their constituents. This is the case with our
state governments, and in them a constitutional rotation is unimportant. But in a government
consisting of but a few members, elected for long periods, and far removed from the observation
of the people, but few changes in the ordinary course of elections take place among the members.

They become in some measure a fixed body, and often inattentive to the public good, callous,
selfish, and the fountain of corruption. To prevent these evils, and to force a principle of pure
animation into the federal government, which will be formed much in this last manner
mentioned, and to produce attention, activity, and a diffusion of knowledge in the community,
we ought to establish among others the principle of rotation. Even good men in office, in time,
imperceptibly lose sight of the people, and gradually fall into measures prejudicial to them. It is
only a rotation among the members of the federal legislature I shall contend for. Judges and
officers at the heads of the judicial and executive departments are in a very different situation.
Their offices and duties require the information and studies of many years for performing them
in a manner advantageous to the people. These judges and officers must apply their whole time
to the detail business of their offices, and depend on them for their support. Then, they always
act under masters or superiors, and may be removed from office for misconduct.

They pursue a certain round of executive business; their offices must be in all societies confined to a few men,
because but few can become qualified to fill them. And were they, by annual appointments, open
to the people at large, they are offices of such a nature as to be of no service to them. They must
leave these offices in the possession of the few individuals qualified to fill them, or have them
badly filled. In the judicial and executive departments also, the body of the people possess a
large share of power and influence, as jurors and subordinate officers, among whom there are
many and frequent rotations. But in every free country the legislatures are all on a level, and
legislation becomes partial whenever, in practice, it rests for any considerable time in a few
hands. It is the true republican principle to diffuse the power of making the laws among the
people and so to modify the forms of the government as to draw in turn the well informed of
every class into the legislature. To determine the propriety or impropriety of this rotation, we
must take the inconveniencies as well as the advantages attending it into view. On the one hand
by this rotation, we may sometimes exclude good men from being elected. On the other hand, we
guard against those pernicious connections, which usually grow up among men left to continue
long periods in office. We increase the number of those who make the laws and return to their
constituents; and thereby spread information, and preserve a spirit of activity and investigation
among the people. Hence a balance of interests and exertions are preserved, and the ruinous
measures of actions rendered more impracticable. I would not urge the principle of rotation, if I
believed the consequence would be an uninformed federal legislature; but I have no
apprehension of this in this enlightened country.

The members of congress, at any one time, must
be but very few compared with the respectable well informed men in the United States; and I
have no idea there will be any want of such men for members of congress, though by a principle
of rotation the constitution should exclude from being elected for two years those federal
legislators, who may have served the four years immediately preceding, or any four years in the
six preceding years. If we may judge from experience and fair calculations, this principle will
never operate to exclude at any one period a fifteenth part even of those men who have been
members of congress. Though no man can sit in congress by the confederation more than three
years in any term of six years, yet not more than three, four, or five men in any one state have
been made ineligible at any one period. And if a good man happens to be excluded by this
rotation, it is only for a short time. All things considered, the inconveniencies of the principle
must be very inconsiderable compared with the many advantages of it. It will generally be
expedient for a man who has served four years in congress to return home, mix with the people,
and reside some time with them. This will tend to reinstate him in the interests, feelings, and
views similar to theirs, and thereby confirm in him the essential qualifications of a legislator.

Even in point of information, it may be observed, the useful information of legislators is not
acquired merely in studies in offices, and in meeting to make laws from day to day. They must
learn the actual situation of the people by being among them, and when they have made laws,
return home and observe how they operate. Thus occasionally to be among the people, is not
only necessary to prevent or banish the callous habits and self-interested views of office in
legislators, but to afford them necessary information, and to render them useful. Another
valuable end is answered by it, sympathy, and the means of communication between them and
their constituents, is substantially promoted. So that on every principle legislators, at certain
periods, ought to live among their constituents. Some men of science are undoubtedly necessary
in every legislature; but the knowledge, generally, necessary for men who make laws, is a
knowledge of the common concerns, and particular circumstances of the people. In a republican
government seats in the legislature are highly honorable. I believe but few do, and surely none
ought to, consider them as places of profit and permanent support. Were the people always
properly attentive, they would, at proper periods, call their lawmakers home, by sending others in
their room. But this is not often the case; and therefore, in making constitutions, when the people
are attentive, they ought cautiously to provide for those benefits, those advantageous changes in
the administration of their affairs, which they are often apt to be inattentive to in practice. On the
whole, to guard against the evils, and to secure the advantages I have mentioned, with the
greatest degree of certainty, we ought clearly in my opinion, to increase the federal
representation, to secure elections on proper principles, to establish a right to recall members,
and a rotation among them.

THE FEDERAL FARMER
