"PHILADELPHIENSIS," who was influenced by Thomas Paine (in "Common Sense), wrote the
following selection. It is taken from 3 essays which appearing February 6 & 20, and April 9 of
1788 in either The Freeman's Journal or, The North-American Intelligencer.

Before martial law is declared to be the supreme law of the land, and your character of free
citizens be changed to that of the subjects of a military king-which are necessary consequences
of the adoption of the proposed constitution - let me admonish you in the name of sacred liberty,
to make a solemn pause. Permit a freeman to address you, and to solicit your attention to a cause
wherein yourselves and your posterity are concerned. The sun never shone upon a more
important one. It is the cause of freedom of a whole continent of yourselves and of your fellow
men. . . .

A conspiracy against the freedom of America, both deep and dangerous, has been formed by an
infernal junto of demagogues. Our thirteen free commonwealths are to be consolidated into one
despotic monarchy. Is not this position obvious? Its evidence is intuitive . . . . Who can deny but
the president general will be a king to all intents and purposes, and one of the most dangerous
kind too-a king elected to command a standing army. Thus our laws are to be administered by
this tyrant; for the whole, or at least the most important part of the executive department is put in
his hands.

A quorum of 65 representatives, and of 26 senators, with a king at their head, are to possess
powers that extend to the lives, the liberties, and property of every citizen of America. This novel
system of government, were it possible to establish it, would be a compound of monarchy and
aristocracy, the most accursed that ever the world witnessed. About 50 (these being a quorum) of
the well born, and a military king, with a standing army devoted to his will, are to have an
uncontrolled power. . . .

There is not a tincture of democracy in the proposed constitution, except the nominal elections of
the president general and the illustrious Congress be supposed to have some color of that nature.
But this is a mere deception, invented to gull the people into its adoption. Its framers were well
aware that some appearance of election ought to be observed, especially in regard to the first
Congress; for without such an appearance there was not the smallest probability of their having it
organized and set in operation. But let the wheels of this government be once cleverly set in
motion, and I'll answer for it, that the people shall not be much troubled with future elections,
especially in choosing their king-the standing army will do that business for them.

The thoughts of a military officer possessing such powers, as the proposed constitution vests in
the president general, are sufficient to excite in the mind of a freeman the most alarming
apprehensions; and ought to rouse him to oppose it at all events. Every freeman of America
ought to hold up this idea to himself: that he has no superior but God and the laws. But this
tyrant will be so much his superior, that he can at any time he thinks proper, order him out in the
militia to exercise, and to march when and where he pleases. His officers can wantonly inflict the
most disgraceful punishment on a peaceable citizen, under pretense of disobedience, or the
smallest neglect of militia duty. . . .

The President-general, who is to be our king after this government is established, is vested with
powers exceeding those of the most despotic monarch we know of in modern times. What a
handsome return have these men [the authors of the Constitution made to the people of America
for their confidence! Through the misconduct of these bold conspirators we have lost the most
glorious opportunity that any country ever had to establish a free system of government. America
under one purely democratical, would be rendered the happiest and most powerful nation in the
universe. But under the proposed one composed of an elective king and a standing army,
officered by his sycophants, the starvelings of the Cincinnati, and an aristocratical Congress of
the well-born-an iota of happiness, freedom, or national strength cannot exist. What a pitiful
figure will these ungrateful men make in history; who, for the hopes of obtaining some lucrative
employment, or of receiving a little more homage from the rest of their fellow creatures, framed
a system of oppression that must involve in its consequences the misery of their own offspring....

Some feeble attempts have been made by the advocates of this system of tyranny, to answer the
objections made to the smallness of the number of representatives and senators, and the improper
powers delegated to them. But, as far as I recollect, no one has been found bold enough to stand
forth in defense of that dangerous and uncontrolled officer, the President-General, or more
properly, our new King.

A few pieces under the signature of An American Citizen' were published immediately after the
Constitution broke the shell, and the hydra made its way from the dark conclave into the open
light. In the first number the writer, in touching on the President, endeavored to conceal his
immense powers, by representing the King of Great Britain as possessed of many hereditary
prerogatives, rights and powers that he was not possessed of; that is, he shows what he is not, but
neglects to show what he really is. But so flimsy a palliative could scarce escape the censure of
the most ignorant advocate for such an officer; and since [then] we hear of no further attempts to
prove the necessity of a King being set over the freemen of America.

The writer of these essays has clearly proven, that the President is a King to all intents and
purposes, and at the same time one of the most dangerous kind too - an elective King, the
commander in chief of a standing army, etc. And to those add, that he has a negative power over
the proceedings of both branches of the legislature. And to complete his uncontrolled sway, he is
neither restrained nor assisted by a privy council, which is a novelty in government. I challenge
the politicians of the whole continent to find in any period of history a monarch more absolute. . . .

PHILADELPHIENSIS
