by Richard Henry Lee

. . . . In contemplating the necessary officers of the union, there appear to be six different modes
in which, in whole or in part, the appointments may be made. 1. by the legislature; 2. by the
president and the senate; 3. by the president and an executive council; 4. by the president alone;
5. by the heads of the departments; 6. by the state governments. Among all these, in my opinion,
there may be an advantageous distribution of the power of appointments.

In considering the legislators, in relation to the subject before us, two interesting questions
particularly arise: 1. whether they ought to be eligible to hold any offices whatever during the
period for which they shall be elected to serve, and even for some time afterwards. 2. how far
they ought to participate in the power of appointments. As to the first, it is true that legislators in
foreign countries, or in our state governments, are not generally made ineligible to office. There
are good reasons for it. In many countries the people have gone on without ever examining the
principles of government. There have been but few countries in which the legislators have been a
particular set of men periodically chosen. But the principal reason is, that which operates in the
several states, viz., the legislators are so frequently chosen, and so numerous, compared with the
number of offices for which they can reasonably consider themselves as candidates, that the
chance of any individual member's being chosen, is too small to raise his hopes or expectations,
or to have any considerable influence upon his conduct. Among the state legislators, one man in
twenty may be appointed in some committee business, etc., for a month or two; but on a fair
computation, not one man in a hundred sent to the state legislatures is appointed to any
permanent office of profit. Directly the reverse of this will evidently be found true in the federal
administration. Throughout the United States, about four federal senators, and thirty-three
representatives, averaging the elections, will be chosen in a year. These few men may rationally
consider themselves as the fairest candidates for a very great number of lucrative offices, which
must become vacant in the year; and pretty clearly a majority of the federal legislators, if not
excluded, will be mere expectants for public offices. I need not adduce further arguments to
establish a position so clear. I need only call to your recollection my observations in a former
letter, wherein I endeavored to show the fallacy of the argument, that the members must return
home and mix with the people. It is said, that men are governed by interested motives, and will
not attend as legislators, unless they can, in common with others, be eligible to offices of honor
and profit. This will undoubtedly be the case with some men, but I presume only with such men
as never ought to be chosen legislators in a free country. An opposite principle will influence
good men. Virtuous patriots, and generous minds, will esteem it a higher honor to be selected as
the guardians of a free people. They will be satisfied with a reasonable compensation for their
time and service; nor will they wish to be within the vortex of influence. The valuable effects of
this principle of making legislators ineligible to offices for a given time, has never yet been
sufficiently attended to or considered. I am assured that it was established by the convention after
long debate, and afterwards, on an unfortunate change of a few members, altered. Could the
federal legislators be excluded in the manner proposed, I think it would be an important point
gained; as to themselves, they would be left to act much more from motives consistent with the
public good. In considering the principle of rotation I had occasion to distinguish the condition of
a legislator from that of a mere official man. We acquire certain habits, feelings, and opinions, as
men and citizens-others, and very different ones, from a long continuance in office. It is,
therefore, a valuable observation in many bills of rights, that rulers ought frequently to return and
mix with the people. A legislature, in a free country, must be numerous; it is in some degree a
periodical assemblage of the people, frequently formed. The principal officers in the executive
and judicial departments must have more permanency in office. Hence it may be inferred, that
the legislature will remain longer uncorrupted and virtuous; longer congenial to the people, than
the officers of those departments. If it is not, therefore in our power to preserve republican
principles for a series of ages, in all the departments of government, we may a long while
preserve them in a well formed legislature. To this end we ought to take every precaution to
prevent legislators becoming mere office-men; choose them frequently, make them recallable,
establish rotation among them, make them ineligible to offices, and give them as small a share as
possible in the disposal of them. Add to this, a legislature in the nature of things is not formed for
the detail business of appointing officers, there is also generally an impropriety in the same men
making offices and filling them, and a still greater impropriety in their impeaching and trying the
officers they appoint. For these and other reasons, I conclude the legislature is not a proper body
for the appointment of officers in general. But having gone through with the different modes of
appointment, I shall endeavor to show what share in the distribution of the power of
appointments the legislature must, from necessity, rather than from propriety, take.

2. Officers may be appointed by the president and senate. This mode, for general purposes, is
clearly not defensible. All the reasoning touching the legislature will apply to the senate. The
senate is a branch of the legislature, which ought to be kept pure and unbiased. It has a part in
trying officers for misconduct, and in creating offices it is too numerous for a council of
appointment, or to feel any degree of responsibility. If it has an advantage of the legislature, in
being the least numerous, it has a disadvantage in being more unsafe; add to this, the senate is to
have a share in the important branch of power respecting treaties. Further, this sexennial senate
of 26 members, representing 13 sovereign states, will not in practice be found to be a body to
advise, but to order and dictate in fact; and the president will be a mere primus inter pares. The
consequence will be that the senate, with these efficient means of influence, will not only dictate,
probably, to the president, but manage the house, as the constitution now stands; and under
appearances of a balanced system, in reality govern alone. There may also, by this undue
connection, be particular periods when a very popular president may have a very improper
influence upon the senate and upon the legislature. A council of appointment must very probably
sit all, or near all, the year. The senate will be too important and too expensive a body for this.
By giving the senate, directly or indirectly, an undue influence over the representatives, and the
improper means of fettering, embarrassing, or controlling the president or executive, we give the
government in the very outset a fatal and pernicious tendency to . . . aristocracy. When we, as a
circumstance not well to be avoided, admit the senate to a share of power in making treaties, and
in managing foreign concerns, we certainly progress full far enough towards this most
undesirable point in government. For with this power, also, I believe, we must join that of
appointing ambassadors, other foreign ministers, and consuls, being powers necessarily
connected. In every point of view, in which I can contemplate this subject, it appears extremely
clear to me, that the senate ought not generally to be a council of appointment. The legislature,
after the people, is the great fountain of power, and ought to be kept as pure and uncorrupt as
possible, from the hankerings, biases, and contagion of offices. Then the streams issuing from it
will be less tainted with those evils. It is not merely the number of impeachments, that are to be
expected to make public officers honest and attentive in their business. A general opinion must
pervade the community, that the house, the body to impeach them for misconduct, is
disinterested, and ever watchful for the public good; and that the judges who shall try
impeachments, will not feel a shadow of bias. Under such circumstances men will not dare
transgress, who, not deterred by such accusers and judges, would repeatedly misbehave. We
have already suffered many and extensive evils, owing to the defects of the confederation, in not
providing against the misconduct of public officers. When we expect the law to be punctually
executed, not one man in ten thousand will disobey it. It is the probable chance of escaping
punishment that induces men to transgress. It is one important means to make the government
just and honest, rigidly and constantly to hold before the eyes of those who execute it,
punishment and dismissal from office for misconduct. These are principles no candid man who
has just ideas of the essential features of a free government will controvert. They are, to be sure,
at this period, called visionary, speculative and anti-governmental-but in the true style of
courtiers, selfish politicians, and flatterers of despotism. Discerning republican men of both
parties see their value. They are said to be of no value by empty boasting advocates for the
constitution, who, by their weakness and conduct, in fact, injure its cause much more than most
of its opponents. From their high sounding promises, men are led to expect a defense of it, and to
have their doubts removed. When a number of long pieces appear, they, instead of the defense,
etc., they expected, see nothing but a parade of names; volumes written without ever coming to
the point; cases quoted between which and ours there is not the least similitude; and partial
extracts made from histories and governments, merely to serve a purpose. Some of them, like the
true admirers of royal and senatorial robes, would fain prove, that nations who have thought like
free-men and philosophers about government, and endeavored to be free, have often been the
most miserable. If a single riot in the course of five hundred years happened in a free country; if
a salary or the interest of a public or private debt was not paid at the moment-they seem to lay
more stress upon these trifles (for trifles they are in a free and happy country), than upon the
oppressions of despotic government for ages together. As to the lengthy writer in New York, I
have attentively examined his pieces. He appears to be a candid good hearted man, to have a
good style and some plausible ideas. But when we carefully examine his pieces, to see where the
strength of them lies-when the mind endeavors to fix on those material parts, which ought to be
the essence of all voluminous productions-we do not find them. The writer appears constantly to
move on a smooth surface, the part of his work like the parts of a cob-house, are all equally
strong and all equally weak, and all like those works of the boys, without an object. His pieces
appear to have but little relation to the great question, whether the constitution is fitted to the
condition and character of this people or not.

But to return. 3. Officers may be appointed by the president and an executive council. When we
have assigned to the legislature the appointment of a few important officers; to the president and
senate the appointment of those concerned in managing foreign affairs; to the state governments
the appointment of militia officers; and authorise the legislature, by legislative acts, to assign to
the president alone, to the heads of the departments, and courts of law respectively, the
appointment of many inferior officers-we shall then want to lodge some where a residuum of
power, a power to appoint all other necessary officers, as established by law. The fittest
receptacle for this residuary power is clearly, in my opinion, the first executive magistrate,
advised and directed by an executive council of seven or nine members, periodically chosen
from such proportional districts as the union may for the purpose be divided into. The people
may give their votes for twice the number of counsellors wanted, and the federal legislature take
twice the number also from the highest candidates, and from among them choose the seven or
nine, or number wanted. Such a council may be rationally formed for the business of
appointments; whereas the senate, created for other purposes, never can be. Such councils form a
feature in some of the best executives in the union. They appear to be essential to every first
magistrate, who may frequently want advice.

To authorise the president to appoint his own council would be unsafe. To give the sole
appointment of it to the legislature would confer an undue and unnecessary influence upon that
branch. Such a council for a year would be less expensive than the senate for four months. The
president may nominate, and the counsellors always be made responsible for their advice and
opinions, by recording and signing whatever they advise to be done. They and the president, to
many purposes, will properly form an independent executive branch; have an influence unmixed
with the legislative, which the executive never can have while connected with a powerful branch
of the legislature. And yet the influence arising from the power of appointments be less
dangerous, because in less dangerous hands-hands properly adequate to possess it. Whereas the
senate, from its character and situation, will add a dangerous weight to the power itself, and be
far less capable of responsibility, than the council proposed. There is another advantage: the
residuum of power as to appointments, which the president and council need possess, is less than
that the president and senate must have. And as such a council would render the sessions of the
senate unnecessary many months in the year, the expenses of the government would not be
increased, if they would not be lessened by the institution of such a council. I think I need not
dwell upon this article, as the fitness of this mode of appointment will perhaps amply appear by
the evident unfitness of the others.

4. Officers may be appointed by the president alone. It has been almost universally found, when
a man has been authorized to exercise power alone, he has never done it alone; but, generally,
[was] aided [in] his determinations by, and rested on the advice and opinions of others. And it
often happens when advice is wanted, the worst men, the most interested creatures obtrude
themselves, the worst advice is at hand, and misdirects the mind of him who would be informed
and advised. It is very seldom we see a single executive depend on accidental advice and
assistance; but each single executive has, almost always, formed to itself a regular council, to be
assembled and consulted on important occasions. This proves that a select council, of some kind
is, by experience, generally found necessary and useful. But in a free country, the exercise of any
considerable branch of power ought to be under some checks and controls. As to this point, I
think the constitution stands well. The legislature may, when it shall deem it expedient, from
time to time, authorise the president alone to appoint particular inferior officers; and when
necessary, to take back the power. His power, therefore, in this respect, may always be increased
or decreased by the legislature, as experience, the best instructor, shall direct-always keeping
him, by the constitution, within certain bounds. Officers, in the fifth place, may be appointed by
the heads of departments or courts of law. Art. 2., Sect. 2., respecting appointments, goes on-
"But congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers as they think proper in
the president alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads of departments." The probability is, as
the constitution now stands, that the Senate, a branch of the legislature, will be tenacious of the
power of appointment, and much too sparingly part with a share of it to the courts of law, and
heads of departments. Here again the impropriety appears of the senate's having, generally, a
share in the appointment of officers. We may fairly assume, that the judges and principal officers
in the departments will be able well informed men in their respective branches of business; that
they will, from experience, be best informed as to proper persons to fill inferior offices in them;
that they will feel themselves responsible for the execution of their several branches of business,
and for the conduct of the officers they may appoint therein. From these, and other
considerations, I think we may infer, that impartial and judicious appointments of subordinate
officers will, generally, be made by the courts of law, and the heads of departments. This power
of distributing appointments, as circumstances may require, into several hands, in a well formed
disinterested legislature, might be of essential service not only in promoting beneficial
appointments, but also in preserving the balance in government. A feeble executive may be
strengthened and supported by placing in its hands more numerous appointments; an executive
too influential may be reduced within proper bounds, by placing many of the inferior
appointments in the courts of law, and heads of departments; nor is there much danger that the
executive will be wantonly weakened or strengthened by the legislature by thus shifting the
appointments of inferior officers. Since all must be done by legislative acts which cannot be
passed without the consent of the executive, or the consent of two- thirds of both branches, a
good legislature will use this power to preserve the balance and perpetuate the government. Here
again we are brought to our ultimatum-is the legislature so constructed as to deserve our
confidence?

6. Officers may be appointed by the state governments. By Art. 1., Sect. S., the respective states
are authorised exclusively to appoint the militia officers. This not only lodges the appointments
in proper places, but it also tends to distribute and lodge in different executive hands the powers
of appointing to offices, so dangerous when collected into the hands of one or a few men.

It is a good general rule, that the legislative, executive, and judicial powers, ought to be kept
distinct. But this, like other general rules, has its exceptions; and without these exceptions we
cannot form a good government, and properly balance its parts. And we can determine only from
reason, experience and a critical inspection of the parts of the government, how far it is proper to
intermix those powers. Appointments, I believe, in all mixed governments, have been assigned to
different hands-some are made by the executive, some by the legislature, some by the judges,
and some by the people. It has been thought advisable by the wisest nations-that the legislature
should so far exercise executive and judicial powers as to appoint some officers judge of the
elections of its members, and impeach and try officers for misconduct; that the executive should
have a partial share in legislation; and that judges should appoint some subordinate officers, and
regulate so far as to establish rules for their own proceedings. Where the members of the
government, as the house, the senate, the executive, and judiciary, are strong and complete, each
in itself, the balance is naturally produced; each party may take the powers congenial to it, and
we have less need to be anxious about checks, and the subdivision of powers.

If after making the deductions already alluded to, from the general power to appoint federal
officers, the residuum shall be thought to be too large and unsafe, and to place an undue
influence in the hands of the president and council, a further deduction may be made, with many
advantages and perhaps with but a few inconveniencies-and that is, by giving the appointment of
a few great officers to the legislature-as of the commissioners of the treasury, of the comptroller,
treasurer, master coiner, and some of the principal officers in the money department; of the
sheriffs or marshalls of the United States; of states attorneys, secretary of the home department,
and secretary of war; perhaps of the judges of the supreme court; of major generals and admirals.
The appointments of these officers, who may be at the heads of the great departments of
business, in carrying into execution the national system, involve in them a variety of
considerations. They will not often occur and the power to make them ought to remain in safe
hands. Officers of the above description are appointed by the legislatures in some of the states,
and in some not. We may, I believe, presume that the federal legislature will possess sufficient
knowledge and discernment to make judicious appointments. However, as these appointments by
the legislature tend to increase a mixture of power, to lessen the advantages of impeachments and
responsibility, I would by no means contend for them any further than it may be necessary for
reducing the power of the executive within the bounds of safety.

THE FEDERAL FARMER
