By Melancthon Smith (a "PLEBIAN")

. . . . It is agreed, the plan is defective-that some of the powers granted are dangerous-others not
well defined-and amendments are necessary why then not amend it? Why not remove the cause
of danger, and, possible, even the apprehension of it? The instrument is yet in the hands of the
people; it is not signed, sealed, and delivered, and they have power to give it any form they
please.

But it is contended, adopt it first, and then amend it. I ask, why not amend, and then adopt it?
Most certainly the latter mode of proceeding is more consistent with our ideas of prudence in the
ordinary concerns of life If men were about entering into a contract respecting their private
concerns it would be highly absurd in them to sign and seal an instrument containing stipulations
which are contrary to their interests and wishes, under the expectation, that the parties, after its
execution, would agree to make alteration agreeable to their desire. They would insist upon the
exceptionable clause being altered before they would ratify the contract. And is a compact for the
government of ourselves and our posterity of less moment than contract between individuals?
Certainly not. But to this reasoning, which at first vie would appear to admit of no reply, a
variety of objections are made, and number of reasons urged for adopting the system, and
afterwards proposing amendments. Such as have come under my observation, I shall state, an
remark upon.

It is insisted, that the present situation of our country is such, as not t admit of a delay in forming
a new government, or of time sufficient to deliberate and agree upon the amendments which are
proper, without involving ourselves in a state of anarchy and confusion.

On this head, all the powers of rhetoric, and arts of description, ar employed to paint the
condition of this country, in the most hideous an frightful colors. We are told, that agriculture is
without encouragement trade is languishing; private faith and credit are disregarded, and public
credit is prostrate; that the laws and magistrates are condemned and set at naught; that a spirit of
licentiousness is rampant, and ready to break over every bound set to it by the government; that
private embarrassments and distresses invade the house of every man of middling property, and
insecurity threatens every man in affluent circumstances: in short, that we are in a state of the
most grievous calamity at home, and that we are contemptible abroad, the scorn of foreign
nations, and the ridicule of the world. From this high wrought picture, one would suppose that
we were in a condition the most deplorable of any people upon earth. But suffer me, my
countrymen, to call your attention to a serious and sober estimate of the situation in which you
are placed, while I trace the embarrassments under which you labor, to their true sources, What
is your condition? Does not every man sit under his own vine and under his own fig-tree, having
none to make him afraid? Does not every one follow his calling without impediments and
receive the reward of his well-earned industry? The farmer cultivates his land, and reaps the fruit
which the bounty of heaven bestows on his honest toil. The mechanic is exercised in his art, and
receives the reward of his labor. The merchant drives his commerce, and none can deprive him
of the gain he honestly acquires; all classes and callings of men amongst us are protected in their
various pursuits, and secured by the laws in the possession and enjoyment of the property
obtained in those pursuits. The laws are as well executed as they ever were, in this or any other
country. Neither the hand of private violence, nor the more to be dreaded hand of legal
oppression, are reached out to distress us.

It is true, many individuals labor under embarrassments, but these are to be imputed to the
unavoidable circumstances of things, rather than to any defect in our governments. We have just
emerged from a long and expensive war. During its existence few people were in a situation to
increase their fortunes, but many to diminish them. Debts contracted before the war were left
unpaid while it existed, and these were left a burden too heavy to be home at the commencement
of peace. Add to these, that when the war was over, too many of us, instead of reassuming our
old habits of frugality, and industry, by which alone every country must be placed in a
prosperous condition, took up the profuse use of foreign commodities. The country was deluged
with articles imported from abroad, and the cash of the country has been sent to pay for them,
and still left us laboring under the weight of a huge debt to persons abroad. These are the true
sources to which we are to trace all the private difficulties of individuals. But will a new
government relieve you from these? ... Your present condition is such as is common to take place
after the conclusion of a war. Those who can remember our situation after the termination of the
war preceding the last, will recollect that our condition was similar to the present, but time and
industry soon recovered us from it. Money was scarce, the produce of the country much lower
than it has been since the peace, and many individuals were extremely embarrassed with debts;
and this happened although we did not experience the ravages, desolations, and loss of property,
that were suffered during the late war.

With regard to our public and national concerns, what is there in our condition that threatens us
with any immediate danger? We are at peace with all the world; no nation menaces us with war;
nor are we called upon by any cause of sufficient importance to attack any nation. The state
governments answer the purposes of preserving the peace, and providing for present exigencies.
Our condition as a nation is in no respect worse than it has been for several years past. Our
public debt has been lessened in various ways, and the western territory, which has been relied
upon as a productive fund to discharge the national debt has at length been brought to market,
and a considerable part actually applied to its reduction. I mention these things to show, that
there is nothing special, in our present situation, as it respects our national affairs, that should
induce us to accept the proffered system, without taking sufficient time to consider and amend it.
I do not mean by this, to insinuate, that our government does not stand in need of reform. It is
admitted by all parties, that alterations are necessary in our federal constitution, but the
circumstances of our case do by no means oblige us to precipitate this business, or require that
we should adopt a system materially defective. We may safely take time to deliberate and
amend, without in the meantime hazarding a condition, in any considerable degree, worse than
the present.

But it is said that if we postpone the ratification of this system until the necessary amendments
are first incorporated, the consequence will be a civil war among the states. . . . The idea of [New
York] being attacked by the other states, will appear visionary and chimerical, if we consider that
tho' several of them have adopted the new constitution, yet the opposition to it has been
numerous and formidable. The eastern states from whom we are told we have most to fear,
should a civil war be blown up, would have full employ to keep in awe those who are opposed to
it in their own governments. Massachusetts, after a long and dubious contest in their convention,
has adopted it by an inconsiderable majority, and in the very act has marked it with a stigma in
its present form. No man of candor, judging from their public proceedings, will undertake to say
on which side the majority of the people are. Connecticut, it is true, have acceded to it, by a large
majority of their convention; but it is a fact well known, that a large proportion of the yeomanry
of the country are against it. And it is equally true, that a considerable part of those who voted
for it in the convention, wish to see it altered. In both these states the body of the common
people, who always do the fighting of a country, would be more likely to fight against than for it.
Can it then be presumed, that a country divided among themselves, upon a question where even
the advocates for it, admit the system they contend for needs amendments, would make war upon
a sister state? . . . The idea is preposterous. . .

The reasonings made use of to persuade us, that no alterations can be agreed upon previous to the
adoption of the system, are as curious as they are futile. It is alleged, that there was great
diversity of sentiments in forming the proposed constitution; that it was the effect of mutual
concessions and a spirit of accommodation, and from hence it is inferred, that further changes
cannot be hoped for. I should suppose that the contrary inference was the fair one. If the
convention, who framed this plan, were possessed of such a spirit of moderation and
condescension, as to be induced to yield to each other certain points, and to accommodate
themselves to each other's opinions, and even prejudices, there is reason to expect, that this same
spirit will continue and prevail in a future convention, and produce an union of sentiments on the
points objected to. There is more reason to hope for this, because the subject has received a full
discussion, and the minds of the people much better known than they were when the convention
sat. Previous to the meeting of the convention, the subject of a new form of government had been
little thought of, and scarcely written upon at all. It is true, it was the general opinion, that some
alterations were requisite in the federal system. This subject had been contemplated by almost
every thinking man in the union. It had been the subject of many well- written essays, and it was
the anxious wish of every true friend to America. But it was Dever in the contemplation of one in
a thousand of those who had reflected on the matter, to have an entire change in the nature of our
federal government-to alter it from a confederation of states, to that of one entire government,
which will swallow up that of the individual states. I will venture to say, that the idea of a
government similar to the one proposed, never entered the minds of the legislatures who
appointed the convention, and of but very few of the members who composed it, until they had
assembled and heard it proposed in that body: much less had the people any conception of such a
plan until after it was promulgated, While it was agitated, the debates of the convention were
kept an impenetrable secret, and no opportunity was given for well informed men to offer their
sentiments upon the subject. The system was therefore never publicly discussed, nor indeed
could be, because it was not known to the people until after it was proposed. Since then, it has
been the object of universal attention-it has been thought of by every reflecting man-been
discussed in a public and private manner, in conversation and in print; its defects have been
pointed out, and every objection to it stated; able advocates have written in its favor, and able
opponents have written against it. And what is the result? It cannot be denied but that the general
opinion is, that it contains material errors, and requires important amendments. This then being
the general sentiment, both of the friends and foes of the system, can it be doubted, that another
convention would concur in such amendments as would quiet the fears of the opposers, and
effect a great degree of union on the subject? -- An event most devoutly to be wished. But it is
further said, that there can be no prospect of procuring alterations before it is acceded to, because
those who oppose it do not agree among themselves with respect to the amendments that are
necessary. To this I reply, that this may be urged against attempting alterations after it is
received, with as much force as before; and therefore, if it concludes anything, it is that we must
receive any system of government proposed to us, because those who object to it do not entirely
concur in their objections. But the assertion is not true to any considerable extent. There is a
remarkable uniformity in the objections made to the constitution, on the most important points. It
is also worthy of notice, that very few of the matters found fault with in it, are of a local nature,
or such as affect any particular state; on the contrary, they are such as concern the principles of
general liberty, in which the people of New Hampshire, New York and Georgia are equally
interested. . . .

It has been objected too that the new system . . . is calculated to and will effect such a
consolidation of the States, as to supplant and overturn the state governments....

It has been said that the representation in the general legislature is too small to secure liberty, or
to answer the intention of representation. In this there is an union of sentiments in the opposers.

The constitution has been opposed, because it gives to the legislature an unlimited power of
taxation both with respect to direct and indirect taxes, a right to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts and excises of every kind and description, and to any amount. In this there has been as
general a concurrence of opinion as in the former.

The opposers to the constitution have said that it is dangerous, because the judicial power may
extend to many cases which ought to be reserved to the decision of the State courts, and because
the right of trial by jury is not secured in the judicial courts of the general government, in civil
cases. All the opposers are agreed in this objection.

The power of the general legislature to alter and regulate the time, place and manner of holding
elections, has been stated as an argument against the adoption of the system. The opposers to the
constitution universally agree in this objection. . .

The mixture of legislative, judicial, and executive powers in the Senate; the little degree of
responsibility under which the great officers of government will be held; and the liberty granted
by the system to establish and maintain a standing army without any limitation or restriction, are
also objected to the constitution; and in these there is a great degree of unanimity of sentiment in
the opposers. . . .

You have heard that both sides on this great question, agree, that there are in it great defects; yet
the one side tell you, choose such men as will adopt it, and then amend it-while the other say,
amend previous to its adoption. I have stated to you my reasons for the latter, and I think they are
unanswerable. Consider, you the common people, the yeomanry of the country, for to such I
principally address myself, you are to be the principal losers, if the constitution should prove
oppressive. When a tyranny is established, there are always masters as well as slaves; the great
and well-born are generally the former, and the middling class the latter. Attempts have been
made, and will be repeated, to alarm you with the fear of consequences; but reflect there are
consequences on both sides, and none can be apprehended more dreadful, than entailing on
ourselves and posterity a government which will raise a few to the height of human greatness and
wealth, while it will depress the many to the extreme of poverty and wretchedness.
Consequences are under the control of that all-wise and all-powerful being, whose providence
conducts the affairs of all men. Our part is to act right, and we may then have confidence that the
consequences will be favorable. The path in which you should walk is plain and open before
you; be united as one man, and direct your choice to such men as have been uniform in their
opposition to the proposed system in its present form, or without proper alterations. In men of
this description you have reason to place confidence, while on the other hand, you have just
cause to distrust those who urge the adoption of a bad constitution, under the delusive
expectation of making amendments after it is acceded to. Your jealousy of such characters
should be the more excited, when you consider that the advocates for the constitution have
shifted their ground. When men are uniform in their opinions, it affords evidence that they are
sincere. When they are shifting, it gives reason to believe, they do not change from conviction. It
must be recollected, that when this plan was first announced to the public, its supporters cried it
up as the most perfect production of human wisdom, It was represented either as having no
defects, or if it had, they were so trifling and inconsiderable, that they served only, as the shades
in a fine picture, to set off the piece to the greater advantage. One gentleman in Philadelphia
went so far in the ardor of his enthusiasm in its favor, as to pronounce, that the men who formed
it were as really under the guidance of Divine Revelation, as was Moses, the Jewish lawgiver.
Their language is now changed; the question has been discussed; the objections to the plan ably
stated, and they are admitted to be unanswerable. The same men who held it almost perfect, now
admit it is very imperfect; that it is necessary it should be amended. The only question between
us, is simply this@hall we accede to a bad constitution, under the uncertain prospect of getting it
amended, after we have received it, or shall we amend it before we adopt it? Common sense will
point out which is the most rational, which is the most secure line of conduct. May heaven
inspire you with wisdom, union, moderation and firmness, and give you hearts to make a proper
estimate of your invaluable privileges, and preserve them to you, to be transmitted to your
posterity unimpaired, and may they be maintained in this our country, while Sun and Moon
endure.

A PLEBEIAN
